# Media Queries

```css
  @media (max-width: 400px) {
    .signup-button {
      font-size: 2rem;
    }
  }
```

- The  `@media`  keyword is known as an "at-rule". at-rules are a special kind of CSS statement that changes behaviour. There are a handful of at-rules that all do different things; another example is  `@keyframes`, which allows you to define an animation sequence.

- Media queries selectively apply rules based on one or more conditions. In this case, we're saying that the  `.signup-button`  selector should adopt an additional declaration when the viewport is 400px wide or less.

- **Notice that the button always has pink text**. Media queries allow us to  _merge_  rules together. We're not picking "one or the other"—when the viewport is 400px or smaller, declarations from both rules will apply.

- It's also important to note that **media queries don't affect specificity**.

In JS terms, it's as if we had done this:
```js
let signupButtonStyles =  {}
if (windowWidth <=  400)  {
 signupButtonStyles.fontSize  =  '2rem';
}
signupButtonStyles.color  =  'deeppink';
signupButtonStyles.fontSize  =  '1rem';
```

## With styled-components

- Here's how we use a media query with styled-components:
```jsx
const  SignupButton  = styled.button`
  color:  deeppink;
  font-size:  1rem;
  @media  (max-width:  400px)  {
  font-size:  2rem;
  }
`;
```
- styled-components allows us to nest media queries within our component definitions.
- This might seem like a small thing, but it  **totally changes our mental model**  when it comes to styling. With regular media queries, declarations are grouped by viewport size:
```css
/* All mobile styles */
.wrapper  {
  padding:  8px;
  border:  2px solid;
}
.button  {
  font-size:  1rem;
}
h2.title  {
  font-size:  2rem;
}

/* All tablet styles */
@media  (min-width:  550px)  {
  .wrapper  {
  padding:  16px;
  border:  3px solid;
  }
  h2.title  {
  font-size:  2.5rem;
  }
}

/* All desktop styles */
@media  (min-width:  1100px)  {
  .button  {
  font-size:  1.5rem;
  }
  h2.title  {
  font-size:  3em;
  }
}
```
- With styled-components, all of the declarations for an element are in the same spot:
- This pattern makes it way easier to reason about which styles apply to which elements. Everything you need to know, in 1 place.

- Fortunately,  **this "nested media queries" thing is not unique to styled-components.**  CSS preprocessors like Sass also support nested media queries. I suggest using this pattern if your tool allows for it.

## Mobile-first vs desktop-first

```css
/* Desktop */
.signup-button  {
  color:  deeppink;
  font-size:  1rem;
}

@media  (max-width:  400px)  {
  .signup-button  {
  font-size:  2rem;
  }
}

/* Mobile */
.signup-button  {
  color:  deeppink;
  font-size:  2rem;
}

@media  (min-width:  401px)  {
  .signup-button  {
  font-size:  1rem;
  }
}
```

- The first snippet is known as **desktop-first**, since our default styles (the ones not inside `@media`) target desktop devices, and then we specify overrides for mobile devices. By contrast, the second snippet is **mobile-first**, since the main styles are for mobile devices (400px or smaller).

- Another factor to consider: are you  _designing_  the project, in addition to implementing it? If so, it can be helpful to think in mobile-first terms, because  **it's easier to add than to take away**. If you start from a desktop perspective, you'll need to find a way to shrink everything for mobile, which can be really tricky. Better to start from mobile, and work your way up.

- Ultimately, though, the most important thing is to  **be consistent with the approach.**  If you decide to build mobile-first, you should almost always use  `min-width`  media queries. It can be very confusing if you mix  `min-width`  and  `max-width`  media queries.