### Mixing patterns

- I believe that our applications should be either mobile-first or desktop-first. If we consistently use a single set of media queries, it'll help us quickly scan chunks of CSS to understand the structure.

- `revert` is a special keyword that restores the property to its default value. It's a way of undoing the `display: none` set outside the media query.

- That said, there are exceptions. Sometimes, it's just too much trouble to structure things this way.

For example, if we have a completely different layout that only exists on tablet, it can be nice to wrap it in a "tablet only" media query:

```css
@media  (min-width:  500px)  and  (max-width:  1023px)  {
  .wrapper  {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: row;
    gap:  32px;
    align-items: flex-start;
    justify-content: center;
  }

  .wrapper:first-child  {
    width:  200px;
    min-height:  200px;
  }
}
```

- It  _is_  possible to rewrite this to only use  `min-width`, but it would ultimately make the CSS harder to understand.

- Ultimately, this comes down to judgment and intuition, and the only way to build that intuition is to experiment. Try both approaches, and see what works best for you in your applications!

## Media queries and units

- When creating  `min-width`  /  `max-width`  media queries, should we use pixels? Or maybe another unit, like rems?

- the  `rem`  unit is equal to 16px by default, but can be redefined, either by the developer  _or by the end user._

- Suppose the user has poor vision, and they want to boost the size of text. They go into their browser settings, and crank up the baseline font size to 32px. Now, each  `rem`  unit is equal to 32px instead of 16px.

- When we use rem-based media queries, we flip to the  _mobile_  view (even though they're using a desktop-sized window). The large text has more room to breathe, and it's generally just a much better experience.

- For this reason,  **I recommend using  `rem`  media queries in most situations.**

- You can also use  `em`  instead of  `rem`; the two units function exactly the same way, when it comes to media queries.