# Other Queries

## Hovering
- Hovering is a gesture only possible when using a pointer device, like a mouse or a trackpad. On mobile devices, we typically use our fingers, and our fingers are incapable of hovering.

- So how do we avoid setting hover styles on mobile devices? Your first instinct might be to only apply hover styles on larger screens

- This isn't quite right, though: after all, some users on a large desktop display will shrink their windows to a smaller size. Also, not all desktop users navigate using a pointer device. We shouldn't think of hover events as a "big screen thing", we should think of them as a "mouse/trackpad thing"

- There's another media query we can use for this:
```css
@media (hover: hover) and (pointer: fine) {
  button:hover {
  text-decoration: underline;
  }
}
```
- This is a relatively new addition to the Media Queries specification. They're called [“Interaction Media Features”](https://drafts.csswg.org/mediaqueries-4/#mf-interaction). They allow us to apply styles based on which input mechanism the user is using.

- What's the difference between "hover" and "pointer"? They actually refer to two distinct capabilities. `hover` is the ability for a device to move the cursor without also triggering a click/tap on the element underneath; a mouse can do this, but your finger or a stylus can't. `pointer` refers to the level of control the user has over the position of the cursor.

- A "fine" pointer like a mouse or trackpad means that the user can be very precise with their clicks. Using our fingers on a touchscreen, though, is "coarse": we can't be anywhere near as precise.

- Somewhat magically, browsers are able to infer which input device you're using! This is a dynamic query: if you switch from using a mouse to using a keyboard (for navigation, not for typing), the values for  `hover`  and  `pointer`  will update dynamically.

### Boolean logic in media queries

- In the hover/pointer media query above, we also introduced something new: the “and” keyword.
```css
@media (hover: hover) and (pointer: fine) {
  /* styles */
}
```

- “and” is essentially the same as  `&&`  in JavaScript. In order for the styles to be applied,  **all**  of the queries must be satisfied.

- Here's another example you may have seen before:

```css
@media screen and (min-width: 600px) {
  /* styles */
}
```

- `screen`  is a “media type”. In this case, we're saying that the styles should only apply when displaying the site/app on a screen. We can also specify  `print`  styles which apply when the page is printed onto paper or saved as a PDF.

- (specifying  `screen`  has become less common in recent years, as browsers have chosen more-sensible defaults when it comes to printing.)

**Other boolean operators**

- In addition to “and”, it's also possible to specify “or” (`||`) as well.

- if we want to specify that _any_ of the conditions can be met, we can use a comma:

- Truthfully, “or” isn't super useful. it's more of an academic curiosity than something you'll use in day-to-day life.

## Preference-based media queries

- Another feature of media queries is that they can "hook in" and access user preferences. This allows us to tailor our styles based on the user's personal preferences and needs.

- For example, we can detect whether the user prefers light mode or dark mode with this media query:
```css
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  /* Dark-mode styles here */
}
```
- It's not just about "preference", though. These queries allow us to create safer, more accessible experiences.

- For example, some folks are sensitive to motion. Our fun parallax animation might give them a migraine, or make them feel so nauseous they need to lie down for an hour. We can avoid this by wrapping our animation-based styles in this media query:

```css
@media  (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)  {
  /* Animations here */
}
```

**- The important takeaway is that media queries aren't _just_ about screen sizes.**

**Orientation**

- Aside from  `min-width`  /  `max-width`, there are other ways to target specific window proportions. One of the most interesting is  `orientation`:

```css
@media  (orientation: portrait)  {
  /* Styles for windows that are taller than they are wide */
}

@media  (orientation: landscape)  {
  /* Styles for windows that are wider than they are tall */
}
```
- I've done some pretty extensive experimentation with this media query, and have found that it's  **not usually worth using.**  It's not as flexible as  `min-width`  /  `max-width`, and it leads to confusing conflicts between both types of queries.

- In rare cases, though, it can be a useful tool to have in the toolbox.