# Margin Collapse

* Unlike padding and border margin collapses

# Rules of Margin Collapse

## Only vertical margins collapse

```html    
    <style>
      p {
        margin-top: 24px;
        margin-bottom: 24px;
      }
    </style>
    
    <p>Paragraph One</p>
    <p>Paragraph Two</p>
```

* Each paragraph has 24px of vertical margin (margin-top and margin-bottom), and that margin collapses. The paragraphs will be 24px apart, not 48px apart.

* When margin-collapse was added to the CSS specification, the language designers made a curious choice: horizontal margins (margin-left and margin-right) shouldn't collapse.

**Writing modes**

CSS gives us the power to switch our writing modes, so that block-level elements stack horizontally instead of vertically

- When block elements are stacked horizontally, this rule flips: now, horizontal margins collapse, but vertical margins don't.

- So our first rule is a bit of a misnomer; it would be more accurate to say that only _block-direction margins collapse_.

## Margins only collapse in Flow layout

The web has multiple layout modes, like positioned layout, flexbox layout, and grid layout.

Margin collapse is  _unique to  [Flow layout](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/01-rendering-logic-1/09-flow-layout)_. If you have children inside a  `display: flex`  parent, those children's margins will never collapse.

## Only adjacent elements collapse

It is somewhat common to use the  `<br />`  tag (a line-break) to increase space between block elements.

```html
<style>
	p {
	  margin-top:  32px;
	  margin-bottom:  32px;
	}
</style>

<p>Paragraph One</p>
   <br  />
<p>Paragraph Two</p>
```
- Regrettably, this has an adverse effect on our margins.

- The `<br />` tag is invisible and empty, but _any_ element between two others will block margins from collapsing. Elements need to be adjacent in the DOM for their margins to collapse.

## The bigger margin wins

- What about when the margins are asymmetrical? Say, the top element wants 72px of space below, while the bottom element only needs 24px?

- The bigger number wins.

## Nesting doesn't prevent collapsing
```html
<style>
  p  {
   margin-top:  48px;
   margin-bottom:  48px;
  }
</style>

<div>
  <p>Paragraph One</p>
</div>
<p>Paragraph Two</p>
```

We're dropping our first paragraph into a containing  `<div>`, but the margins will still collapse!

- It turns out that many of us have  **a misconception about how margins work.**

- Margin is meant to increase the distance between siblings. It is  _not_  meant to increase the gap between a child and its parent's bounding box; that's what padding is for.

- Margin will always try and increase distance between siblings,  **even if it means  _transferring_  margin to the parent element!**  In this case, the effect is the same as if we had applied the margin to the parent  `<div>`, not the child  `<p>`.

- Margins only collapse when they're _touching_. Here are some examples of nested margins that don't collapse.

### Blocked by padding or border

- You can think of padding/border as a sort of wall; if it sits between two margins, they can't collapse, because there's an obstruction in the way.

### Blocked by a gap
- Note that this is on a _per-side basis_. In this example, the child's _top_ margin could still collapse. But because there's some empty space below the child, its bottom margin will never collapse.

### Blocked by a scroll container

- If the parent element creates a scroll container, with a declaration like  `overflow: auto`  or  `overflow: hidden`, it will disable margin collapse if the margins are on either side of the scroll container.

## Margins can collapse in the same direction

```html
<style>
	.parent {
	  margin-top:  72px;
	}

	.child  {
	  margin-top:  24px;
	}
</style>

<div  class="parent">
  <p  class="child">Paragraph One</p>
</div>
```
- This is an extension of the previous rule. The child margin is getting “absorbed” into the parent margin. The two are combining, and are subject to the same rules of margin-collapse we've seen so far (eg. the biggest one wins).

- **0px margin is still a collapsible margin.**

## More than two margins can collapse

A combination of the previous rules:

-   Siblings can combine adjacent margins (if the first element has margin-bottom, and the second one has margin-top)
    
-   A parent and child can combine margins in the same direction

## Negative margins

- A negative margin will pull an element in the opposite direction.

- How do negative margins collapse? Well, it's actually quite similar to positive ones! The negative margins will share a space, and the size of that space is determined by the most significant negative margin. In this example, the elements overlap by 75px, since the more-negative margin (-75px) was more significant than the other (-25px).

- What about when negative and positive margins are mixed? In this case, the numbers are _added together_. In this example, the -25px negative margin and the 25px positive margin cancel each other out and have no effect, since -25px + 25px is 0.

>  Why would we want to apply margins that have no effect?! Well, sometimes you don't control one of the two margins. Maybe it comes from a legacy style, or it's tightly ensconced in a component. By applying an inverse negative margin to the parent, you can "cancel out" a margin.

- Of course, this is not ideal. Better to remove unwanted margins than to add even more margins! But this hacky fix can be a lifesaver in certain situations.
