# Pseudo-classes

- Pseudo-classes let us apply a chunk of CSS based on an element's current state. In this case, we're adding a blue text color when the element is hovered.

- This is similar to  `onMouseEnter`  /  `onMouseLeave`  events in JavaScript, but with built-in state management. If we were to do this in JS, we'd need to register event listeners, but we'd also need to manage the state somehow, to know if the element is  _currently_  being hovered.

## focus

- HTML comes with interactive elements like buttons, links, and form inputs. When we interact with one of these elements (either by clicking on it or tabbing to it), it becomes focused. It'll capture keyboard input, so we can type into a form field or press "Enter" to follow a link.

- The  `:focus`  pseudo-class allows us to apply styles exclusively when an interactive element has focus.

- Focus styles are primarily useful for folks who don't use a "pointer-style" input device (like a mouse, a trackpad, or a finger on a touchscreen).

- Please don't add `outline: none` to get rid of the focus outlines (unless you're replacing it with an even-more-prominent set of styles).

## checked

- The  `:checked`  pseudo-class only applies to checkboxes and radio buttons that are "filled in". You can apply additional styles to indicate that the input is activated.

- Browsers don't offer too much flexibility when it comes to checkboxes and radio buttons, but this neat trick lets you apply certain CSS properties depending on its status.

## first/last child

- Pseudo-classes aren't just for states like hover/focus/checked! They can also help us apply  _conditional logic._

- **Here's how this works:**  The  `:last-child`  pseudo-class will only select  `<p>`  tags which are the  _final element within its container_. It needs to be the last child within its parent.

- Similarly, the  `:first-child`  pseudo-class will match the first child within a parent container.

- **:first-of-type and :last-of-type** :
	- `:first-of-type` depends on the _type_ of the HTML tag.
	
	- Our `p:first-child` is looking for situations where a _paragraph_ is the first child within a parent container.
	
	- The `:first-of-type` pseudo-class ignores any siblings that aren't of the same type. In this case, `p:first-of-type` is going to select the first _paragraph_ within a container, regardless of whether or not it's the first _child_.