# Pseudo-elements

- Pseudo-elements are like pseudo-classes, but they don't target a specific state. Instead, they target "sub-elements" within an element.

- For example, we can style the placeholder text in a form input with  `::placeholder`:

- In terms of syntax, pseudo-elements use two colons instead of one (`::`), though some pseudo-elements also support single-colon syntax.

- If we stop and think about it, something pretty interesting is happening here. We haven't explicitly created a  `<placeholder>`  element, but by adding the  `placeholder`  attribute to the  `<input>`  tag, a pseudo-element is created.

- This is why they're called pseudo-_elements_  — these selectors target elements in the DOM that we haven't explicitly created with HTML tags.

- Here's a quick test you can use to check if you're using placeholders correctly: if you were to remove all of the placeholders from the form, would it still be usable, and easy to fill out? If the answer is “no”, you have some work to do.

## before and after

- Two of the most common pseudo-elements are  `::before`  and  `::after`.

- `::before`  and  `::after`  are really just secret spans, nothing more. It's syntactic sugar.

- In general,  **we probably shouldn't use these two pseudo-elements.**  In a vanilla HTML/CSS world, it can be helpful to "bundle" content in with a CSS selector. In the era of components, however, we have better ways of bundling content.

- There are also some accessibility concerns with  `::before`  and  `::after`. Some  screen readers?  will try to vocalize the  `content`. Others will ignore them entirely. This inconsistency is problematic.

- That said, if the effect is entirely decorative (eg. colorful shapes), I believe it's fine to create them with an empty `content` string.
