# CSS Filters

- CSS filters allow us to leverage the ridiculous power of SVG filters from within CSS
- CSS has access to about a dozen common SVG filters, through the use of filter functions like `drop-shadow()`.

##  Color Manipulation
- We can apply multiple filters to the same element by space-separating them:
```css
.image  {
  filter:
  brightness(120%)
  contrast(110%)
  grayscale(50%);
}
```
- These color-manipulation filters are often used on images, but they work with any DOM nodes!

- In this example. we crank up the brightness on hover, using `transition` to animate the effect:

```css
<style>
  .btn {
    background: linear-gradient(
      to top,
      hsl(260deg 80% 40%),
      hsl(260deg 80% 50%)
    );
    transition: filter 600ms;
  }
  .btn:hover, .btn:focus {
    transition: filter 250ms;
    filter: brightness(150%);
  }
```

- The effect is similar to animating `background-color`, but more flexible, since it works with gradients and background images as well.

### Hue rotation

The  `hue-rotate`  filter function is interesting: it shifts the color of every pixel in the element.

## Blur Filter

- One of the most useful CSS filters is  `blur`. It applies a Gaussian blur to the selected element.

- Blurring can be a very expensive operation, even with hardware acceleration. Be sure to test your effect on low-end devices before trying this sort of thing!

- **Blurring is cosmetic(warning)**

	- When we apply a blur to an image, we obfuscate it visually, but this is a purely cosmetic effect. If someone is using a screen reader, they'll be able to access the element, and won't have any idea that the content is meant to be concealed.

	- This can be a problem if the blurring serves a functional purpose. For example, if you're building a quiz game, and the answer is heavily blurred until the user submits their response.

	- In these cases, you'll need to use the  `aria-hidden`  attribute to hide the content from screen readers. You can remove the blur filter and the aria-hidden attribute at the same time for a consistent, parallel experience.


- The `blur` filter will lead to a soft, blurred edge. If you'd prefer a sharper edge, you can add `overflow: hidden` to the parent container

### Blurred glow


## Backdrop Filters

- if we want to blur everything _behind_ the element

- We can accomplish this task using the  `backdrop-filter`  property:

```html
<style>
  .blur-circle {
    backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
    /* Vendor prefix for Safari: */
    -webkit-backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
  }
</style>

```
### The tip of the iceberg

- `backdrop-filter`  unlocks a lot of interesting, creative possibilities. It's most commonly used with the  `blur`  filter, but  `backdrop-filter`  supports the full range of filters we saw with  `filter`! You can likewise combine multiple backdrop filters:

```css
.header  {
  backdrop-filter:
  brightness(150%)
  hue-rotate(30deg)
  blur(5px);
}
```