# Floats

- Before we had Flexbox, floats were a critical tool for constructing layouts, even though it was never designed with layouts in mind. We don't need to use floats for layouts anymore, but that doesn't mean it's obsolete!

- We can position a floated element on either side, by specifying either `float: left` or `float: right`.

## Shapes

Historically, a floated element would "block out" a rectangle. Text would wrap around that rectangle.

Recently, floats have gained an additional superpower: they can now specify a shape for text to wrap around!

```html
<style>
  .floated {
    float: left;
    shape-outside: circle();
    margin-right: 24px;

    /* Cosmetic tweaks: */
    width: 125px;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }
</style>
```

- `shape-outside` lets us specify a shape that text should wrap around. `circle` is the most straightforward value, but it accepts many different shapes:

  - `clip-path`-style polygons
  - SVG-style paths, to define complex straight and curved shapes
  - Auto-detection, by passing a URL to an image with transparency

```css
.floated {
  --breathing-room: 16px;
  float: left;
  shape-outside: url("https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/cfj-mats/me-light.png");
  margin-right: var(--breathing-room);
  shape-margin: var(--breathing-room);
  width: 125px;
}
```

- In order to make this work, we add `shape-margin`, a special property that adds a gap between the opaque pixels in an image's shape and the surrounding content.

- We also need to add `margin-right`, since `shape-margin` can't push the content beyond the image's content size (try removing `margin-right` to see what I mean).

## Clearfixing

- Floats have one notorious drawback—if you're not careful, they can break the heck out of your layout.

```html
<style>
  .clearfix::after {
    content: "";
    display: block;
    clear: both;
  }
</style>
```

- Our parent `.wrapper` element now renders a pseudo-element that applies `clear: both` (which will clear both left and right floated elements) right after the content. It doesn't actually matter that this element is empty; the fact that it exists causes the parent to grow to include the entire floated element, and the 0px-tall element below.
