# Border Radius

- The `border-radius` property lets us round the corners of our boxes

## Percentages

- Here's how to think about it: the ellipse will be proportional to the element itself. If our element has a width of 300px and a height of 150px, it will have an aspect ratio of 2:1. When we use a single percentage value for  `border-radius`, it produces an ellipse with the same aspect ratio.

- If we set  `border-radius`  to  `50%`, something special happens.

- If the radius is 50%, that means the diameter is 100%. So we wind up with an ellipse that is the same width and height as the element itself. As a result, our shape becomes an ellipse

## Full shorthand syntax

- So we've seen how  `border-radius`  actually takes 8 separate values: there are 4 corners, and each corner can specify a horizontal  _and_  vertical radius.

- We can pass all 8 values to the  `border-radius`  shorthand with our friend, the  `/`  delimiter:

```css
.box  {
  border-radius:  10%  20%  30%  40%  /  50%  60%  70%  80%
}
```

- The first 4 numbers are all  _horizontal radiuses_. We specify them in clockwise order, starting from the top-left corner.

- The last 4 numbers are the  _vertical radiuses_, also specified in clockwise order from the top-left.

- If only the first 4 numbers are provided, they're copied over to the last 4
- And if only a single value is provided, it's copied over to all 8 values


## Nested Radiuses

- Suppose we have a rounded element in a rounded container. We use the same border-radius for both parent and child

```html
<style>
  .card {
    border-radius: 16px;
    padding: 8px;
  }
  .avatar {
    border-radius: 8px;
  }
</style>
```
- The correct outer radius is 24px (16px inner radius + 8px padding).

## Circular Radius

- There's a hacky-yet-simple fix for this—pick a _very very large_ number:

```html
<style>
  .card {
    /* Yowza! */
    border-radius: 5000px;
  }
</style>
```
- Here's why this works: the  `border-radius`  algorithm has a built-in limit: it won't allow the corners to grow so large that they run into each other.

- If our element is 200×100, each corner will have a maximum radius of  `50px`. It's mathematically impossible for them to grow larger

### Asymmetric circles

- Like before, our corners are circular, and they scale with the element as it changes size and shape. Except this time, they aren't symmetrical; the top corners are 5x larger than the bottom ones.

- We can do this by picking large, asymmetrical values:

```html
<style>
  .card {
    width: 200px;
    height: 100px;
    border: 3px solid hsl(225deg, 12%, 40%);
    border-radius: 5000px 5000px 1000px 1000px;
  }
</style>
```

- When given way-too-large values, the browser will clamp them, and do its best to preserve the ratio between them. In effect, it's treated like `flex-grow` numbers, rather than absolute pixel values