# Clipping With clip-path

- `clip-path` allows us to trim a DOM node into a specific shape. For example, here we can use it to create a triangle:

```css
  clip-path: polygon(
      0% 100%,
      50% 0%,
      100% 100%
  };
```

- Like the `transform` property, `clip-path` has no effect on layout. An element with `clip-path` applied will still take up the same amount of space in the DOM.

## Animations

- Even as a static property, `clip-path` is very cool. The fact that it can be animated using `transition` or keyframe animations makes it even cooler!

- In order for `transition` to work, both `polygon` definitions need to have the same number of points.

- If you do wish to animate between two elements with a different number of points, you'll need to cheat by adding multiple points in the same spot.

- The end state still has 4 points, but the middle two points are in exactly the same spot, and so it appears to produce a 3-sided shape.

- Animated `clip-paths` unlock a ton of interesting options for unique micro-interactions and animations.

**Layer promotion(info)**

- You may have noticed something a bit curious: we're changing the `clip-path` property, but we've set `will-change: transform`! Why not `will-change: clip-path`?

- In Chrome (and possibly other browsers), setting `will-change: transform` will promote the element to its own layer. Curiously, setting `will-change: clip-path` doesn't have the same effect. As a result, a larger surface area needs to be painted on each frame.

- In my anecdotal experience, setting `will-change: transform` appears to cut the average paint time from ~20ms to ~0.5ms.

## Rounded Shapes

- `clip-path` supports both a `circle` function and an `ellipse` function

- The syntax looks like this:

```css
.wrapper {
  clip-path: ellipse(xRadius yRadius at xPosition yPosition);
}
```

- This effectively makes it like a super-charged `border-radius`. We can choose exactly which part of the element we want to crop

- Like with polygonal clip-paths, we can also animate circular clip-paths!

## With Shadows

- The reason is that _filters are applied before clip-path_. There's an order of operations here, and it means that the shadow is being clipped out.

- We can solve this by moving the drop-shadow to the parent element

- We need to use `filter: drop-shadow` because `box-shadow` won't contour the clipped shape, it'll add the shadow to the rectangular box-model container.
