
# Mobile UX Improvements

## Tap rectangles and text selection

- When tapping an interactive element on mobile devices, the browser will flash a "tap rectangle" briefly.

- Notice the grey rectangle that flashes quickly? The color varies between iOS and Android, but the effect is constant.

- Why does it do this? Well, the box can serve as helpful feedback, to confirm that you've successfully tapped an interactive element. But our button offers plenty of feedback as-is, so we don't need it in this case.

- We can remove it with this declaration:
```css
.pushable  {
  -webkit-tap-highlight-color:  transparent;
}
```

- One more thing: on iOS, if the button is held down for a second, the phone will try and select the text within the button

- The  `user-select`  property allows us to set an element to be unselectable:
```css
.pushable  {
  user-select: none;
}
```
- **With great power comes great responsibility.**  We should exercise great caution when disabling browser features meant to improve usability! In this case, I feel pretty confident that we are  _improving_  the experience, not degrading it, but these properties should be used extremely conservatively.

 ## Increasing target sizes
 
- It's hard to be precise with a coarse pointer. Given that mobile users typically use a touchscreen with a finger, we need to ensure that our interactive elements have a large tappable area.

- Apple recommends a minimum tap target size of 44 pixels by 44 pixels. This is a minimum, though; it's better to overshoot this target.

- Here's a little trade secret, though:  **this doesn't mean that we have to make everything visually bigger.**

Consider this example:

```html
<style>
  button {
    position: relative;
    height: 32px;
  }
  
  button::after {
    --tap-increment: -8px;
    content: '';
    position: absolute;
    top: var(--tap-increment);
    left: var(--tap-increment);
    right: var(--tap-increment);
    bottom: var(--tap-increment);
  }
</style>
```

- Our button has a pseudo-element that extends outwards by 8px in every direction. Our button may only be 32px tall, but the tap target size is 48px

Here's how this works:

1.  Make sure the link/button is a containing block for positioned elements by setting  `position: relative`  (assuming it's not already being set!)
    
2.  Add a child pseudo-element, and make it absolutely-positioned.
    
3.  Set  `top`  /  `left`  /  `right`  /  `bottom`  to a negative value, so that it extends outwards.
  

- This trick allows us to increase the size of the tap target without affecting the design, which can be indispensable in some situations.