# Units

- The most popular unit for anything size-related is the pixel:
```css
.box  {
  width:  1000px;
  margin-top:  32px;
  padding:  8px;
}
```
- Pixels are nice because they correspond more-or-less with what you see on the screen

-  It's a unit that many developers get comfortable with.

## Ems

- The  `em`  unit is an interesting fellow. It's a  _relative_  unit, equal to the font size of the current element.

- If a heading has a font-size of 24px, and we give it a bottom padding of  `2em`, we can expect that the element will have 48px of cushion underneath it (2 × 24px).

- Using `em` means that a component's UI will change depending on the font size of the container it's placed within. This can be useful, but more often than not, it's a nuisance.

The  `rem`  unit is much more useful in most circumstances.

## Rems

- The  `rem`  unit is quite a lot like the  `em`  unit, with one crucial difference:  **it's always relative to the root element, the  `<html>`  tag.**

- All of the rems across your app will be taking their cues from that root HTML tag. By default, the HTML tag has a font size of  `16px`, so  `1rem`  will be equal to  `16px`.

- Please note, _you shouldn't actually set a  `px`  font size on the  `html`  tag._ This will override a user's chosen default font size.

- If you really want to change the baseline font size for rem units, you can do that using percentages

## Percentages

- The percentage unit is often used with width/height, as a way to consume a portion of the available space.