# _Positioned layout_.

- The defining feature of positioned layout is that items can overlap. The Flow Layout algorithm tries very hard to make sure that multiple elements never occupy the same pixels. With positioned layout, however, we can break out of the box.

- We can opt into Positioned layout using the  `position`  property. It can be set to  `relative`,  `absolute`,  `fixed`, or  `sticky`. Each one works in a unique way, like a mini-layout-algorithm within the layout algorithm.

**Static positioning**

- The default value of the  `position`  property is  `static`.

- Occasionally, you'll see tutorials refer to "statically-positioned" elements. All this really means is that the elements are  _not_  using Positioned layout; they're using some other layout mode, like Flow or Flexbox or Grid.

If an element is currently using Positioned layout and you want to opt out, you can set  `position`  to either  `static`  or  `initial`:
```css
.box {
  /* Revert to its default value, which is ‘static’ */
  position: initial;
}
```

## Relative positioning

Of all the Positioned layout sub-genres,  `relative`  is the most subtle.

it does two things:

1.  Constrains certain children.
    
2.  Enables additional CSS properties to be used.

When we opt into Positioned layout, we enable a handful of new CSS properties, including:

-   top
-   left
-   right
-   bottom

We can use those directional values to shift the element around. With relative positioning, those values are  _relative to its natural position._

- It's common to use `top` and `left` to push things along the vertical and horizontal axes respectively. Setting `left: 10px` pushes the element 10px to the right.

- You can also use negative numbers to push the element in the opposite direction; for relatively-positioned nodes,  `left: -10px`  has the same effect as  `right: 10px`.

- You might be thinking "That's cool and all, but I can already push an element around with margin! What's the difference?"

- When we push a relatively-positioned element around with top/left/right/bottom, the browser acts like the element is still in its original position. The displacement is purely cosmetic.

- Which of these is better? Well, it depends on the situation! Sometimes you want to shift an item around independently, and sometimes you'll want it to remain "context-aware".

- Finally, it's important to note that relative positioning can be applied to _both block and inline elements_. This allows us to nudge inline elements in a way that isn't really possible otherwise.