# Absolute Positioning

- What if we want to break the rules, though? What if we want to take an element out of this orderly flow, and stick it wherever we want?

- In these cases,  **_absolute positioning**_  is our friend.

We generally use absolute positioning for things like:

-   UI elements that need to float above the UI, like tooltips or dropdowns.
-   Decorative elements that need to be stuck in certain positions (eg. abstract illustrations).
-   Stacking multiple elements in the same place, like a deck of cards.

```css
  .pink.box {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0px;
    bottom: 0px;
    right:0;
    left:0;
    /* width: 75px; */
    /* height: 75px; */
    background: deeppink;
  }
```

## Placement based on the frame

- This is the main thing people think about when it comes to absolute positioning. We can stick something in the corner, or otherwise position something based on the box it's being constrained by, ignoring its "natural" position.

- We can do this with 4 properties:  `top`,  `left`,  `right`, and  `bottom`. Above, we stuck our box in the top-right corner by specifying that it should be 0px from the top edge and 0px from the right edge.
- Absolutely-positioned elements are adjusted based on their container, not based on their in-flow position.

### Default placement
- Here's a question: what happens if you set  `position: absolute`, but  _don't_  give it an anchor by setting  `top`  /  `left`  /  `right`  /  `bottom`?

- If we don't give our absolute element an anchor, **it sits in its default in-flow position**.

- It has one other effect, though. It causes the absolute element to stack on top of the surrounding text.

## Effect on layout

- This point is a bit less obvious, but maybe even more important. When we set something to be  `position: absolute`, we  **pull it out of flow.**

- When the browser is laying out elements, it effectively pretends that absolutely-positioned elements don't exist. They're “incorporeal”: you can stick your hand right through them, like a hologram or a ghost.

```html
<style>
  p {
    position: absolute;
  }
</style>

<p>This is a paragraph.</p>
<p>Another paragraph, with different words.</p>
<p>Finally, to complete the set, a third.</p>
```
- The browser starts by putting that first paragraph in its natural position, at the top of the document, but because it's absolute, it still considers that space empty.

- Next, the second paragraph gets added in its natural position, which is also right at the top, since the container is effectively “empty”.

- This process will continue for each provided  `absolute`  element.

- Being able to take elements out-of-flow is super handy. Any time you want an element to be "floating above" the content, like a tooltip or a dropdown or a modal, absolute positioning is your friend.

**The right tool for the job**

- _In general,_  absolute positioning is intended to be used in situations where we  _don't_  want it to affect its surrounding layout.

- If you find yourself running into this problem over and over, it's likely that you're reaching for absolute positioning in situations where another layout mode (eg. Flexbox, Grid) would be more appropriate.

## Absolute sizes

- Absolute positioning element will try to small as possible in size

- In **Absolute positioning**, display property does not have any effect, except display : none

- In **Relative positioning**, display property does have effect.

# Centering Trick

```html
<style>
  .box {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0px;
    left: 0px;
    right: 0px;
    bottom: 0px;
    width: 100px;
    height: 100px;
    margin: auto;
    background: deeppink;
  }
</style>

<div class="box"></div>
```

There are 4 important ingredients for this trick to work:

-   absolute positioning (`position: absolute`)
    
-   Equal distances from each edge (ideally  `0px`)
    
-   A fixed size (defined  `width`  and  `height`  properties)
    
-   Hungry margins (`margin: auto`)

In absolute positioned layout, ```margin : auto``` works both vertically and horizontally, in flow only horizontal works.

It's especially useful for prominent bits of UI, things like modals or drawers or dialog boxes.

## The “inset” property

- Modern CSS has given us a more terse way to accomplish this:
```css
.box {
  inset: 0;
}
```

- The  `inset`  property will set all 4 edge properties (`top`,  `left`,  `right`, and  `bottom`) to the provided value.

- It's useful for this centering trick, but also when we want an element to be “inset” within its parent:
```html
<style>
  .box {
    position: absolute;
    inset: 25px;
    background: deeppink;
  }
</style>

<div class="box"></div>
```
This is equivalent to:

```css

.box  {
  position: absolute;
  top:  25px;
  left:  25px;
  right:  25px;
  bottom:  25px;
  background: deeppink;
}
```