# Containing Blocks

- In CSS, every HTML element has a “containing block”. A containing block is a rectangle that forms the bounds of the element's container.

- In Flow layout, elements are contained by their parents.

- Flow layout uses containing blocks to figure out where on the screen to place the element.

- When it comes to absolute positioning, however, containing blocks work a little bit differently.

- When we set the position of an element using  `top`  /  `left`  /  `right`  /  `bottom`, we're positioning the element  **based on the element's containing block.**  If our element sets  `top: 0; left: 0`, the element will be nestled in the top-left corner of the containing block.

- **Absolute elements can only be contained by  _other_  elements using Positioned layout.**  This is a really important point, and a really common source of confusion.

- If we add  `position: relative`  to the  `.parent`  class, it flips the child's containing block. It will now be contained by the parent

- Here's how the algorithm works: When deciding where to place an absolutely-positioned element, it crawls up through the tree, looking for a Positioned ancestor. The first one it finds will provide the containing block.

- **What if it doesn't find one?**  In many of the examples we've seen so far, there aren't any Positioned ancestors.

- In this case, the element will be positioned according to the  **“initial containing block”**. This is a box the size of the viewport, right at the top of the document.

- It doesn't matter how many parent elements are wrapping the child, it will ignore all of them until it finds a  `position`. It doesn't have to be  `relative`, as seen here, but it has to use Positioned layout.  `absolute`,  `fixed`, and  `sticky`  will also work.

- One last quick point:  **the pink box ignores the padding of the containing block.**  It sits right up against the border, even though each of these boxes has  `16px`  of padding. The way to think about this: padding is used in Flow layout calculations, and absolute elements are taken out-of-flow. Those rules don't apply.