# Stacking Contexts, z-index

- How does the browser decide which element to render "on top" when elements overlap?

**It depends on the layout mode!**
-    When all siblings are rendered in Flow layout, the DOM order controls how the background elements overlap, but the content will always float to the front.
    
-   If one sibling uses positioned layout, it will appear above its non-positioned sibling, no matter what the DOM order is.
    
-   If both siblings use positioned layout, the DOM order controls which element will be on top. Unlike in Flow layout, the content does not float to the front.

That's how the stacking order is calculated by default, but CSS gives us a tool to override this default behaviour.

## z-index

- If we want the layered order to be different from the DOM order, we can use the  `z-index`  property to manually reorder them

- `z-index`  only works with positioned elements and  in Flexbox (as well as Grid).

- . It will have no effect on an element being rendered in Flow layout.

-	The  `z`  in  `z-index`  refers to the  `z`  axis:

	-   `x`  is left/right
	-   `y`  is up/down
	-   `z`  is forward/backward
	
- The default value of the `z-index` property is `auto`, which is equivalent to the number `0`. Therefore, any value greater than 0 can be used to "promote" an element to sit in front of its sibling

### Negative z-indexes

- z-index values must be integers, and they're allowed to be negative.  `z-index: -1`  is a valid declaration.

- In my experience, though, negative z-indexes introduce additional complexity without offering much benefit. Every time I've tried to use negative z-index values, I've wound up regretting it.

**z-index is compared amongst same level stacking contexts**

### Creating new contexts
- we can create a stacking context by combining a non-static position with a `z-index`.
-  Setting  `opacity`  to a value less than  `1`
    
-   Setting  `position`  to  `fixed`  or  `sticky`  (No z-index needed for these values!)
    
-   Applying a  `mix-blend-mode`  other than  `normal`
    
-   Adding a  `z-index`  to a child inside a  `display: flex`  or  `display: grid`  container
    
-   Using  `transform`,  `filter`,  `clip-path`, or  `perspective`
    
-   Explicitly creating a context with  `isolation: isolate`

## Managing z-index

- We can avoid setting z-index, relying on DOM order instead. And in other cases, we can bundle up our layers into an isolated stacking context.

### Swapping DOM order

- If we don't specify a z-index, the browser will paint positioned elements based on their DOM order. So as long as our card uses positioned layout (with `position: relative`) and comes _after_ the blobs, it'll be painted on top. This is true across browsers and devices.

**Be careful with this strategy!**

Swapping the DOM order to control rendering can be a very useful trick, but it isn't always appropriate.

When we swap the order of two DOM nodes, we also swap their order in the tab index. For folks who navigate with a keyboard, they encounter elements  _based on the DOM order_.

In the example above, this isn't a problem, since the decorative images aren't interactive. Keyboard users will skip right past them no matter where in the DOM they are.

But if we were to swap the order of an element containing  _interactive_  elements — links, buttons, form inputs — it can have a jarring effect on the user experience for keyboard navigators.

### Isolated stacking contexts

 **The isolation property**

- Instead of adding  `position: relative; z-index: 1;`  to our  `.pricing`  selector, we can do this:
```css
.pricing  {
  isolation: isolate;
}
```
- The  `isolation`  property does precisely 1 thing: creates a stacking context.

- It has the same effect of flattening all of the child elements, but it does so without requiring that we also set a  `z-index`  on the parent. It's the lightest-touch way to create a stacking context.

- Whenever a child within a component applies a `z-index` value, I add `isolation: isolate` to the component's parent element. This guarantees that we won't see weird "slip-in-between" bugs.

- In React we can set:
  
	```css
	#root {
		 isolation: isolate
	}
	```

  so that our app z-index doesn't clash with portal z-index