# Fixed Positioning

- Fixed position is a close cousin to absolute positioning. The main difference is that it's even more rebellious: it can  _only_  be contained by the viewport. It doesn't care about containing blocks.

- The main advantage of fixed-position elements is that they're immune to scrolling.

- It listens to the _“initial containing block”_, a box the size and position of the viewport.

- Many of the tips and tricks we learned for absolute positioning will work here as well: for example, a fixed element can be centered on the screen using the [same party trick](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/02-rendering-logic-2/03-centering-trick#absolute-centering). This is perfect for overlays like modals:
```html
<style>
  .modal {
    /*
      For this party trick, we need:
      - Position absolute or fixed
      - All sides set to '0'
      - explicit dimensions
      - auto margins
    */
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    width: 80%;
    height: 400px;
    margin: auto;
  }
</style>

```
- If we don't set an anchor point, **they sit in their in-flow position**. If this element wasn't `position: fixed`, it would sit in the top-left corner of its parent element, `.wrapper`. This behavior is consistent with absolute positioning.

- This is mostly a curiosity, but it can be useful in certain situations, when we want to "inherit" an in-flow position while still remaining fixed in place.

## Incompatibility with certain CSS properties

- Certain CSS properties, when applied to an ancestor, will mess with fixed positioning.

- For example, if an ancestor (parent, grandparent, …) uses the  `transform`  property, it stops being locked to the viewport

- **Here's what's happening here:**  By applying a transform to  `.container`, it becomes the containing block for this fixed-position child. As a result, it functions like an absolutely-positioned child.

- The same thing happens when we use the  `filter`  CSS property, as well as the  `will-change`  property

### Diagnosing the problem

- Frustratingly, this issue often pops up in large and complex applications. There might be 15-20 ancestors above our fixed-position element; do we have to check  _all_  of them??

- I've created a short snippet that can help us automatically find the culprit:
```js
// Replace “.the-fixed-child” for a CSS selector

// that matches the fixed-position element:
const selector =  '.the-fixed-child';

function  findCulprits(elem)  {
	if (!elem) {
		throw  new  Error(
		'Could not find element with that selector'
		);
	}

	let parent = elem.parentElement;

	while  (parent)  {
	const  {
		transform,
		willChange,
		filter,
		}  =  getComputedStyle(parent);
		if (
		transform !==  'none'  ||
		willChange ===  'transform'  ||
		filter !==  'none'
	){
		console.warn(
		'🚨 Found a culprit! 🚨\n',
		parent,
		{ transform, willChange, filter }
		);
		  }
		 parent = parent.parentElement;
		}
}
findCulprits(document.querySelector(selector));
```

- To use this snippet, copy/paste it into the browser console. It will log out any ancestors that set one of the troublesome CSS properties.

Once you find the element(s) in question, there are two things you can do:

1.  You can try to remove or replace the CSS property (eg. for  `filter: drop-shadow`, you can use  `box-shadow`  instead).
    
2.  If you can't change the CSS, you can  [use a portal](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/02-rendering-logic-2/10-portals), like we saw in the previous lesson, or otherwise find a way to move the fixed element to a different container.