# Hidden Content

- There are a variety of ways to hide elements in CSS, and they all come with different tradeoffs. If you're not careful, you can introduce accessibility problems, or hurt your search engine rankings!

## display: none

- This method is probably the most well-known way to hide content in CSS. It means business: elements hidden using this declaration are effectively removed from the DOM. They're totally invisible and incorporeal.

- It's unfortunate that this behavior is triggered using the  `display`  property — it already has so many hats to wear! That same property is used to control whether an element is block or inline, as well as used to enable Flexbox and CSS Grid.

- This property can be very useful when combined with media queries to toggle between mobile and desktop variants of an element:

```css
.desktop-header  {
  display: none;
}

@media  (min-width:  1024px)  {
	.desktop-header  {
	  display: block;
	}
	.mobile-header  {
	  display: none;
	}
}
```
- An element that is hidden with `display: none` still hogs memory

## Visibility: hidden

- The  `visibility`  property allows you to hide an element, but in a slightly different way. It's like a cloak of invisibility; the item can't be seen, but it's still there, taking up space.

- This property isn't as commonly used, because generally you don't want a big hole in your UI! But sometimes, it's helpful to be able to "hold space open" for an element that will soon become visible.

- There's one other really cool thing about `visibility: hidden`. **It can be selectively undone by children.**

## Opacity

- Unlike the other options,  _opacity is not binary_. We can flip it from 1 to 0 to fully hide an element, but we can use fractional values to make it semi-transparent.

- Unsurprisingly, hiding an element with opacity does not remove it from flow. In fact, items hidden with opacity aren't  _really_  hidden:

	-   Buttons can still be clicked
	-   Text is still selectable  
	-   Form elements can still be focused
    

- If we're not careful, we can introduce accessibility issues

- Opacity is helpful when:
	-   An item needs to be semi-visible
	-   An item's visibility needs to be animated, fading in and out

## Accessibility

We've seen how to hide elements visually, using a few different methods. But not everyone who uses the web views it on a screen. We also need to consider how to make the best possible experience for folks using screen readers.

- VisuallyHidden Component / Screen Reader only
```css
.visually-hidden  {
	position: absolute;
	overflow: hidden;
	clip:  rect(0  0  0  0);
	height:  1px;
	width:  1px;
	margin:  -1px;
	padding:  0;
	border:  0;
}
```
Better than aria-label

### Hiding from screen readers

- We can tell screen readers to ignore an element using the `aria-hidden` attribute:
```html
<a href="/">
	Go Home
	<span  class="revealed"  aria-hidden="true">
	Go Home
	</span>
</a>
```
- This property has no effect on the layout / visual presentation. It's used exclusively by screen reader software.

**Be careful when focusable elements are concerned!**

- A new "inert" attribute allows us to indicate to screen-readers to ignore interactive content:
```html
<p  inert  aria-hidden="true">
 This paragraph contains <a  href="/">a link</a>.
</p>
```