# Accessibility

- When using color in our user interfaces, there are two questions we need to ask ourselves:

	1.  Is there enough contrast between the text/UI and background?
	2.  Can folks who are color-blind understand this UI?

## Color contrast

- In order for text to be legible, it needs to have a significant amount of contrast between it and its background.

- There is a standardized way of checking contrast levels: the  **WCAG contrast ratios.**

- This is a mathematical formula that accepts two colors, and spits out a number. The bigger the number, the greater the contrast

- The scale ranges from 1 (zero contrast) to 21 (maximum contrast).

-	What's the minimum acceptable number? Well, there are two factors to consider:

	1.  How big is the text? Large text (eg. headings) is allowed to have lower contrast ratios than normal text (eg. paragraphs).
	    
	2.  What level of support are you aiming for? There are AA and AAA guidelines. AAA is more strict. Companies generally settle on AA, though this should be thought of as a bare minimum.

- Chrome also expose this number while hovering using the element selector

## Color blindness

- Color blindness is the inability to see certain colors. It's estimated that between 5-10% of people have some amount of color blindness.

- There are several categories of color-blindness

	-   Red/green colorblindness (protanopia, deuteranopia)
	-   Blue/yellow colorblindness (tritanopia)
	-   Complete colorblindness (monochromacy)

- In our work, we need to be careful not to rely on color to communicate meaning. This is a surprisingly easy mistake to make, given how culturally-embedded some color associations are. For example, most people associate green with success and red with failure, but these two colors are identical for most colorblind folks!

- (We can still use color as a sort of progressive enhancement! But it needs to be a secondary indicator, not the only one.)

- Browser devtools allow us to simulate colorblindness.