# Responsive and Behavioural CSS

One of the trickiest things about building user interfaces is that they have to support such a wide range of possible experiences. Think about all of the things that differ from one user to another:

-   Screen size and orientation
-   Device type (phone, tablet, laptop, desktop, watch, smart-fridge…)
-   Input mechanism (mouse, trackpad, finger, keyboard, dictation…)
-   User preferences and settings (dark/light mode, high-contrast, reduced motion)
-   User zoom level / default font size
-   Device and network performance

And that's just to name a few!

- In the early days of the web, this was standard. Every website had a fixed size. Designers created the UI in Photoshop and exported directly to HTML. It was like printing a flyer. There was nothing dynamic or responsive about it, because there didn't need to be.

- If you tried to visit facebook.com on an iPhone, you'd be redirected to “m.facebook.com”, an entirely different HTML file designed for phones.

This practice was known as  **adaptive design**. The server would serve different HTML files depending on the user-agent.

- **Responsive design**  is the idea that all clients will receive identical HTML files from the server, but those HTML files will be flexible, and will display differently on different devices. Using CSS, we can tweak the layout to work across many different form factors.

- Adaptive design was much more work than responsive design, since we had to create multiple versions of the site from scratch. But it was significantly less complex; figuring out how to get a single HTML file to look good across all devices is no small task!

## Mobile Quirks

### More pixels

- Nowadays, just about every phone comes with a "High DPI" display. DPI stands for "Dots Per Inch", and it refers to the pixel density. Apple has branded this the "Retina display", but the same technology is used on Android phones.

- The iPhone 12 has a native resolution of 1170×2532 pixels—for context, this is more than most large desktop monitors!

- Mobile devices have a “device pixel ratio”. This can be accessed in JavaScript with the following statement:

```console.log(window.devicePixelRatio);```

- This number is the ratio between the physical LED pixels on the device, and the "theoretical" pixels we use in CSS.

- On my iPhone, this number is  `3`. This means that a 10px length will actually be 30px long. Each software pixel actually corresponds to 9 hardware pixels

- Mapping a software pixel to multiple hardware pixels happens “under the hood”. In CSS, we can only access software pixels:
```css
.box {
  /*
 This CSS will ACTUALLY draw a
 150×150 box on a modern iPhone.
 */
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  background: pink;
}
```

- This is especially important to know when rendering images: We want to use large images on high-DPI screens, to make sure they look sharp and clear.

### The magical meta tag

- To make sure that our pages render correctly on mobile, it's imperative that we add the following meta tag to our HTML:
```html
<meta
  name="viewport"
  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"
>
```
- This tag comes stock with every HTML skeleton and boilerplate out there. It's included by default when generating an app with tools like create-react-app.

- `width=device-width` instructs the browser to set the viewport width to match the device's width (so, 320px instead of 980px). `initial-scale=1` says that we should start at 1x zoom.

**Other options**

- This meta tag also allows us to constrain the user's ability to zoom, either by setting a min/max scale, or by disabling it altogether.

- This can be useful when building certain types of applications. For example, if we were building Google Maps, we would want to disable user scaling so that we could implement our own pinch gestures. But this is an escape hatch that 99.9% of applications don't need, and shouldn't use. Zooming is a critical browser feature, and disabling or limiting it will make our products less accessible.