# Breakpoints

- To help add structure to a chaotic world, it helps to pick a series of breakpoints.

- A breakpoint is a specific viewport width that lets us segment all devices into a small set of possible experiences. For example, we might set a breakpoint at 500px. Any device under 500px will be put in the same bucket, and can be styled separately. This ensures a consistent experience; someone on a 375px-wide phone will share the same layout as someone on a 414px-wide phone.

## Picking breakpoint values

- Developers typically pick breakpoints based on common device resolutions. The iPhone 12 has a screen width of 375px, so maybe that'll become our "phone" breakpoint.

- **I don't think that this is the right approach.**  I believe that the most common device resolutions should  _sit in the middle of each grouping_. A 375px iPhone should probably be in the same bucket as a 320px iPhone SE and a 412px Android phone.
- In other words, we should put our breakpoints in _dead zones_, as far away from “real-world” resolutions as possible. They should be in “no-device land”. This way, all similar devices will share the same layout.
- Here are the groups I've identified:

	-   0-550px — Mobile
	-   550-1100px — Tablet
	-   1100-1500px — Laptop
	-   1500+px — Desktop
    

- I don't bother disambiguating between "small" mobile devices (like the iPhone SE, 320px-wide) and "large" mobile devices (like the iPhone X Max, 414px-wide) because I don't generally create distinct layouts for different sizes of phone. Your circumstances might vary, though! Keep your design in mind when picking breakpoint values.

## Implementing breakpoints

- Our exact implementation will depend on whether we go mobile-first or desktop-first.

- Here's how it'd work if we go  _desktop-first_:

```css
/* Default: Desktop monitors, 1501px and up */
@media  (max-width: 1500px) {
/* Laptop */
}

@media  (max-width: 1100px) {
/* Tablets */
}

@media  (max-width: 550px) {
/* Phones */
}
```
- Conversely, if we went _mobile-first_, it would look like this:
```css
/* Default: Phones from 0px to 549px */
@media  (min-width: 550px) {
/* Tablets */
}

@media  (min-width: 1100px) {
/* Laptop */
}

@media  (min-width: 1500px) {
/* Desktop */
}
```
- Some developers like to create queries for "exclusive" ranges. For example, if we wanted to target  _only_  tablet sizes—nothing smaller, nothing bigger—we could do this with the  `and`  keyword:
```css
@media  (min-width:  550px)  and  (max-width:  1099.99px)  {
  /* Tablet-only styles */
}
```
- In most cases, I don't love this approach, since it forces me to complicate my mental model. But I do have to admit, there are times when this pattern comes in handy.

- Here's how I've solved this using styled-components. First, I create some variables in JS:
```js
// constants.js
// For this example, I'm going mobile-first.
const BREAKPOINTS = {
  tabletMin: 550,
  laptopMin: 1100,
  desktopMin: 1500,
}

const  QUERIES  =  {
  'tabletAndUp':`(min-width: ${BREAKPOINTS.tabletMin}px)`,
  'laptopAndUp':`(min-width: ${BREAKPOINTS.laptopMin}px)`,
  'desktopAndUp':`(min-width: ${BREAKPOINTS.desktopMin}px)`,
}
```

- Because our breakpoints are in no-device-land, it makes it a bit easier to name things. `550px` is the smallest possible size for a tablet, so we can name the breakpoint `tabletMin`. The media query can be named `tabletAndUp`, since it includes all tablets, laptops, and desktops.

- When I want to use a media query, I can interpolate these values:
```jsx
import  {  QUERIES  }  from  '../../constants';

const  Wrapper  = styled.div`
  padding:  16px;
  @media  ${QUERIES.tabletAndUp}  {
  padding:  32px;
  }
`;
```

## Rem breakpoints

- If you use something like styled-components, you can create rem-based breakpoints using pixel values like this:
```js
'tabletAndUp':  `(min-width: ${BREAKPOINTS.tabletMin  /  16}rem),
```


## Deviating from our breakpoints

- You might be wondering: is it bad to pick "one-off" values for our media queries? What if we have a UI that needs to change CSS at a different viewport width?

- No matter how perfect our breakpoints are, they'll never be suitable for 100% of cases.  **I think it's totally fine to use the occasional custom value**.

- It's important not to get too caught up in “best practices”. Sometimes, you need to do something custom in order to achieve the best possible UX, and that should be encouraged!

- That said: if you find that you need to use custom values often, it's probably a sign that your breakpoints are at the wrong spots. I'd say that a well-matched set of breakpoint values should be used 80-90%+ of the time.