# CSS Variables

## Custom properties

- The first thing to understand about CSS variables is that they function exactly like  _properties_  (like  `display`,  `color`, etc). We aren't setting a variable, we're creating a brand-new property:
```css
strong  {
  display: block;
  color:  red;
  --favorite-food:  tomato;
  --temperature:  18deg;
}
```
- Custom properties always start with two dashes (`--`), to differentiate them from built-in properties.

- Custom properties are also inheritable, just like  `color`  or  `font-size`.

## Not global

- A common misconception is that CSS variables are "global". When we attach a CSS variable to an element, it's only available to that element and its children

```css
:root {
  --color-primary:  red;
  --color-secondary:  green;
  --color-tertiary:  blue;
}
```
- `:root`  is an alias for  `html`, so by hanging CSS variables on the top-level element, they become globally available (every element, after all, is below the root HTML tag). But you can attach CSS variables to any element, not just the root one!

## Default values

- Our  `var`  function takes two arguments. The second argument is a default value:
```css
.btn {
  padding:  var(--inner-spacing,  16px);
}
```
- If our  `.btn`  element or one of its ancestors assigns a value to the  `--inner-spacing`  property, that value will be used. Otherwise, it'll use a fallback of 16px.

## Reactive properties

- If you've used Sass or Less, you might be thinking “So what? We've had variables in preprocessors for years! What makes this different?".

- The biggest difference is that  _these variables exist at runtime_. With Sass/Less, the variables are compiled away when you build the site, leaving you with static values.

- CSS variables are _reactive_—when their value changes, any properties that reference that value also change. Being able to mutate variables from within JS opens lots of exciting doors.

**styled-components** interpolation syntax is more powerful, and can do things not possible with CSS variables. For example, we can interpolate in a whole chunk of CSS based on a condition, or dynamically create media queries. So it's worth knowing about both strategies, if you work with styled-components!

## Responsive values

We can use the fact that CSS variables are reactive to our advantage when it comes to responsive design.

- Define a new global CSS variable,  `--min-tap-height`:
```css
const  GlobalStyles  = createGlobalStyle`
  @media  (pointer: coarse)  {
  html  {
  --min-tap-height:  44px;
  }
}
`;
```

- _We only define this variable for folks with a coarse pointer._ We'll leave the variable undefined for everyone else.

- Then, we can use this property inside our styled-components:
```jsx
const  FancyButton  = styled.button`
  min-height:  var(--min-tap-height);
`;

const  TextInput  = styled.input`
  min-height:  var(--min-tap-height,  32px);
`;
```

- If the user is using a mouse or other “fine” pointer,  `--min-tap-height`  will never be set.  `FancyButton`  won't have a  `min-height`, and  `TextInput`  will fall back to the default value of 32px.

- But, if the user is using a finger or similarly “coarse” pointer,  `--min-tap-height`  will be set to  `44px`, and that value will be used in both components.

- We're not writing "bespoke" logic for each interactive component anymore. The logic is defined globally. Each component reads a reactive value, and uses that value.

## Variable Fragments

- One of the coolest things about CSS variables is that they're like lego blocks. We can use them as pieces or fragments.
```html
<style>
  body {
    --standard-border-width: 4px;
  }

  strong {
    --border-details: dashed tomato;
    border:
      var(--standard-border-width)
      var(--border-details);
  }
</style>
```
- We can combine multiple variables to form a single property value. In this case, the end result is the declaration  `border: 4px dashed goldenrod`.  **As long as the final product is valid, we're golden(rod).**

- This works because CSS variables are evaluated  _when they're used_, not when they're defined.