# Viewport Units

- There are two main viewport units:  `vw`  (Viewport Width) and  `vh`  (Viewport Height).

- `1vw`  is equivalent to 1% of the viewport width. For example:
```css
.box  {
  width:  10vw;  /* 10% of the viewport width */
  height:  25vh;  /* 25% of the viewport height */
}
```
- We can use these units with `width` and `height`, but the _really_ cool thing is that we can use them with _any property that accepts  `<length>`  units_.
```html
<style>
  .heading {
    letter-spacing: 2.7vh;
  }
</style>
```

**Dynamic viewport units**
- There are several new units we can use:

	-   `svh`  — Small Viewport Height
	-   `lvh`  — Large Viewport Height
	-   `dvh`  — Dynamic Viewport Height
    

- The  `lvh`  unit works like the  `vh`  unit does; it always refers to the  _full_  viewport height, once the browser UI has shrunk down.

- `svh`  always refers to the  _smaller_  height, the height that first shows when the page loads.

- Finally,  `dvh`  will dynamically adjust as the viewport height changes. This is the way our  `height: 100%`  alternative works.

- It's still worth adding a  `vh`  fallback for the other 14% of people. Here's how I recommend using viewport units today:
```css
.some-element  {
  height:  100vh;  /* Fallback for legacy users */
  height:  100dvh;
}
```
- **I don't really find the  `vw`  unit super useful.**

- Block-level elements will expand horizontally, making it much easier to use percentage-based widths compared to percentage-based heights.

## vmin and vmax

- There are two more nifty viewport units:  `vmin`  and  `vmax`.

- `vmin`  will refer to the  _shorter dimension_, while  `vmax`  refers to the longer one. On a portrait phone,  `50vmin`  is equivalent to  `50vw`, but on a landscape monitor,  `50vmin`  would be equal to  `50vh`.