# Clamping Values

- `clamp`  takes 3 values:

	1.  The minimum value
	    
	2.  The ideal value
	    
	3.  The maximum value
    

- It works quite a bit like the trio of  `min-width`,  `width`, and  `max-width`, but it combines it into  _a single property value_. In other words, these two rules are functionally identical:
```css
/* Method 1 */
.column  {
  min-width:  500px;
  width:  65%;
  max-width:  800px;
}

/* Method 2 */
.column  {
  width:  clamp(500px,  65%,  800px);
}
```
- By moving our built-in constraints to the  `clamp`  value, we  _free up_  `max-width`. Our solution combines them:
```css
.column  {

  width:  clamp(500px,  65%,  800px);

  max-width:  100%;

}
```
- In this snippet, we're essentially applying  _two_  maximum widths:  `800px`  and  `100%`. Our  `.column`  element will never be larger than 800px  _or_  100% of the available space.

- This is handy, but it's only one example of the cool things  `clamp`  can do.

## It works with other properties!

- Historically, we've only been able to limit widths and heights. There is no  `min-padding`/`max-padding`  or  `min-font-size`/`max-font-size`.

- The amazing thing about  `clamp`  is that  _it's a value_, not a property. This means that it can be used with just about any property!

## Min and max

- `clamp`  allows us to specify a lower  _and_  upper bound. But what if we only want to limit one end?

- There are  `min`  and  `max`  functions we can use as well:
```css
.box  {
  padding:  min(32px,  5vw);
}
```
- This works just like  [`Math.min`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/min)  in JavaScript—it evaluates to whichever value is smaller.

- In this example, our  `.box`  will have dynamic padding that scales with the viewport width, but only until it reaches 32px; it won't grow larger than that.