# Focus Visible

- At any given moment, exactly one element on the page will be considered “active”. We refer to this as the element being focused.

- There are many ways that focus can move between elements, including:

  1.  Hitting the “Tab” key will cycle to the next interactive element
  2.  Clicking an interactive element will focus it

- Browsers have a built-in way of letting users know which element is focused.

- Focus indicators vary between browsers and operating systems, and they've changed a lot over the years. Often, it's represented as a blue glow, or a black outline.

- **These indicators are important**—without them, someone navigating without a pointer device would have no way of knowing which element is selected, or where they are on the page!

- To help with this problem, a new pseudo-class was added: `:focus-visible`. This pseudo-class is very similar to `:focus`, but it only matches when the element is focused _and_ the user is using a non-pointer input device (eg. keyboard, paddles, sip-and-puff switch, …).

- The idea was that developers could wipe out the default focus styles, and re-add them to `:focus-visible`, so that they wouldn't be shown to folks using a mouse, trackpad, or touchscreen.

- A year or two ago, though, browsers started updating their User-Agent stylesheets. These days, **focus indicators are applied to `:focus-visible` instead of `:focus`:**

```css
/* This is what browsers do nowadays: */

button:focus-visible {
  outline: 5px auto -webkit-focus-ring-color;
}
```

- In other words, those annoying blue rings are _already removed_ for people using a pointer device! We don't need to do anything as developers anymore.

- In my tests across all major browsers on Windows and macOS, focus rings no longer show up when clicking links and buttons. They _do_ still show up on text inputs, but that seems like a good thing; you need to know which element is focused when typing!

* Thanks to the modern web, **there is no longer any reason to remove focus outlines!**. The following code should _not exist_ in your codebase, unless you're replacing the default focus indicator with an even higher-contrast one.

```css
button {
  outline: none;
}
```
