# Typography

## Font families

- We can change which font is used with the  `font-family`  property:
```css
font-family: Arial;
```

- It's called a “family” because each font consists of multiple character sets: for example, “Roboto” includes 12 individual sets: 6 font weights, with 2 variants (normal and italic).
- There are a handful of “web safe fonts”. These are fonts that come pre-installed on all major operating systems, like Arial, Times New Roman, Tahoma.

- Font families come in different styles. The two most popular:
	
	-   Serif
	-   Sans-serif
    

- A “serif” is a little adornment at the edge of strokes. Serif fonts are very common in print media, but less so on the web (they tend to create a more sophisticated, aged look).

- By passing a  _category_  instead of a specific font, the operating system will use its default system font from this category. For example, when specifying  `sans-serif`, Windows 11 will use “Segoe UI”, while MacOS Ventura uses  [SF Pro](https://developer.apple.com/fonts/).

- This can be useful if you want your site/app to feel “native” to its platform, but in general, we want to have our own branding! We can do this with a  _web font_.

### Web fonts

- A web font is a custom font that we load in our CSS, allowing us to use any font we like.

- We can drop a snippet into our HTML which will download this custom font onto the user's device, when they visit our site/app.

```html
<link  rel="preconnect"  href="https://fonts.gstatic.com">
<link  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto:wght@400;700&display=swap"  rel="stylesheet">
```
- This HTML snippet will make the web font available for us to use in our CSS. Here's how we'd use it:

```css
font-family:  'Roboto', Arial, sans-serif;
```
- When using a web font, it's customary to surround its name in quotation marks, like  `'Roboto'`. This is technically only required if the font name has multiple words, but it's a worthwhile convention, to make clear that it refers to a custom web font.

- I'm also specifying multiple comma-separated fonts here. This is known as a  _font stack_. The idea is that the browser will use the first available font from the list. If Roboto isn't available (eg. because the download failed, or it's simply taking too long), we'll use Arial instead. And if the user's device doesn't have Arial, it'll fall back to the system-default sans-serif font.

## Typical text formatting

### Bold text

- We can create bold text with the  `font-weight`  property:
	```css
	font-weight: bold;
	```

- There's also a numbering system, from 1 to 1000, which lets us control the font weight more precisely
- The default value for font weight is  `400`, and the  `bold`  keyword maps to  `700`.

- If we only supply a single font weight, the browser will do its best to represent bold text by thickening the characters. It generally doesn't do a  _great_  job at this.

### Italic text

-  On the web, emphasis is generally represented by slanting the text at an angle. Angled text suggests that the words are being "leaned into".

- We can apply italic text with this declaration:
```css
font-style: italic;
```
- Similar to bold text, the browser can simulate italic text by rendering the characters at an angle. For best results, though, we should supply an italic character set.

### Underlined text

- On the web, underlines carry a very specific meaning: they tend to be links.

- We shouldn't, therefore, use underlines for visual effect, or to signify that something is important. It'll confuse users.

- That said, not  _all_  links will need underlines. For example, navigation links in a site's header are rarely underlined, but it's clear from their presentation that they serve as links.

- We can toggle an element's underline with the  `text-decoration`  property