## Styles and semantics

- CSS allows us to change the cosmetic presentation of text, but it doesn't affect the semantic meaning of the markup. For that, we need to use specialized HTML tags.

- The  `<strong>`  HTML tag is meant to convey that an element is critically important or urgent, like “**Warning: Product may explode if shaken**”.

- The  `<em>`  HTML tag is used for emphasis, the way one might emphasize a particular word in a sentence, like “these pretzels are making me  _thirsty_.”

- **Semantics are important because not everyone can see the cosmetic styles.**  For a variety of reasons, some people use assistive technologies like screen readers (software that reads the text using a synthesized voice) to help them navigate the web. When we use the  `<em>`  tag, for example, the synthesized voice will stress the syllable much like a human would!

- That said, this applies specifically to “copy”, the text content on our websites. We don't need to follow the same rules when it comes to UI elements. For example, we might want to make an input's  `<label>`  bold, and we can do this purely in CSS, without using a  `<strong>`  tag.

- ```<b> and <i>```  Before we had  `<strong>`  and  `<em>`, we had  `<b>`  (for  _bold_) and  `<i>`  (for  _italic_). When HTML5 came around and introduced semantic markup, these two tags were deprecated.

## Alignment
- We can shift characters horizontally using the `text-align` property

- `text-align` is also capable of aligning other elements, like images. In general, though, we'll use other tools for those kinds of jobs. We should reserve `text-align` for text.

## Text transforms

We can tweak the formatting of our text using the  `text-transform`  property

```css
/* RENDER WITH ALL CAPS */
text-transform: uppercase;

/* Capitalize The First Letter Of Every Word */
text-transform: capitalize;
```
- Why use  `text-transform`  when we can edit the HTML? It's advisable to use this CSS so that the “original” casing can be preserved.

- In the future, we may wish to undo the ALL-CAPS treatment. If we had edited the HTML, we'd have to track down and change every single instance. But if we do it in CSS, we only have to remove a single declaration!

## Spacing

We can tweak the spacing of our characters in two ways.

1.  We can tweak the horizontal gap between characters using the  `letter-spacing`  property.
    
2.  We can tweak the vertical distance between lines using the  `line-height`  property.

```css
  h3 {
    letter-spacing: 9px;
  }
  
  p {
    font-size: 2rem;
    line-height: 1.5;
  }
```

- `line-height` is a bit of an odd duck because it takes a _unitless number_. This number is multiplied by the element's `font-size` to calculate the actual line height.

- We can calculate the actual height of each line by multiplying the font size (2rem) by the line-height (1.5), for a derived value of 3rem.

- By default, browsers come with a surprisingly small amount of line height. In Chrome, the default value is  `1.15`. In Firefox, it's  `1.2`.

- These default values produce densely-packed lines of text which can be hard to read for people who are dyslexic or have poor vision.  **To comply with accessibility guidelines, our body text should have a minimum line-height of 1.5.**

- It's possible to pass other unit types (eg. pixels, rems), but I recommend **always using this unitless number, so that the line-height** always scales with the element's font-size.