# Alignment Tricks

- Flexbox gives us a couple pretty neat tricks when it comes to alignment. Let's learn a couple.

## Baseline alignment
- The trouble is that `align-items: center` isn't what we want in this case. Instead, we want to make sure the bottoms of each character are aligned, as they would be if they were written on a page. 

- Remarkably, this “just works” even if there are multiple DOM levels. It even works with specialized HTML elements like inputs and buttons.

- Fix for safari -  We can use placeholders! It's good practice for most inputs to have placeholder text anyway

- (Many developers use placeholders incorrectly; they are _not_ meant to label the input! That's what `<label>` is for.)
- What if placeholder text isn't suitable for the input in question? We can pass a single whitespace character to work around the Safari bug:

```html
<input
  type="text"
  placeholder="  "
/>
```

### Centered AND baseline?

- Here's an interesting thought experiment: What if we wanted to  _combine_  `baseline`  and  `center`  alignment, so that the tallest item would be vertically centered, and then all siblings would be aligned to its baseline?

	- we can set parent element as 
	- flex, justify-content:center
	
- Optical allignment - sees correct to eyes rather than pixel perfecr allignment

## Align self

- So far, we've been aligning all children in a group. But what if we want specific children to have specific alignments?

- Flexbox gives us the  `align-self`  property to manage this situation!

### What about justify-self?

- `align-self`  allows us to pick specific alignment options for each individual item along the cross (secondary) axis. But what about the primary axis?

- Unfortunately,  `justify-self`  doesn't exist in Flexbox. And if you think about it, it kinda makes sense that it wouldn't! In fact,  _it's good that it doesn't exist_.

- We can solve for primary-axis positioning using other properties we'll discover, like  `flex-grow`,  `flex-shrink`,  `flex-basis`, and  `order`. These properties offer  _much_  more flexibility than  `justify-self`  would!