# Ordering

- By default, Flexbox arranges its items based on their DOM order, the same way things work in Flow layout. But in Flexbox, we are given overrides to tweak that order.

## Flipping flex-direction

We've seen how Flexbox has a  `flex-direction`  property: we use it to control whether our container's primary axis is vertical or horizontal.

- There are two other values we can use as well:

	-   `row-reverse`
	-   `column-reverse`

- This _does_ have a surprising side-effect: things will appear right-aligned instead of left-aligned. This is because we aren't just changing the order of the _elements_, we're changing the _direction of the axis_. A reversed row starts on the right, and ends on the left (in a left-to-right language like English).

**Visual order only!**

- When we flip the order of flex children, it's important to know that we're only changing things cosmetically.

- For users who navigate with the keyboard and/or use a screen reader, they'll still be going through items in the order laid out in the DOM / written in your HTML.  `row-reverse`  and  `column-reverse`  don't change anything for them.

- This can actually be a boon, as we'll see shortly. But it's worth keeping in mind, to make sure we don't accidentally make things worse for them.

## Other mechanisms

- There are two other mechanisms we can use to control order:

	-   The  `order`  property, on individual children
	-   `flex-wrap: wrap-reverse`
	    

- `order`  works similar to  `z-index`  — a child with  `order: 2`  will show up after a child with  `order: 1`, but before a child with  `order: 5`.

- `flex-wrap: wrap-reverse`  causes elements to wrap upwards rather than downwards.

Honestly, though, CSS Grid is a better tool for the job when we have complex ordering requirements. For that reason, we won't be looking at `order` or `flex-wrap: wrap-reverse` in this course.