# Flexbox Interactions
- So far, we've been discussing Flexbox on its own. Let's take a look at how Flexbox interacts with other properties and layout modes.

## Positioned flex children

- What do you suppose happens when a flex child is given absolute or fixed positioning?
- When there is a conflict between layout modes,  **positioned layout always wins.**  Our help button will become fixed to the bottom-right corner of the viewport, and the  `.row`  Flex container will ignore it, and act as though it only has one child (`<main>`).

- As a general rule, elements can't participate in multiple layout modes at once. Either it's using flexbox, or it's using positioned layout. This is ultimately a very good thing, because CSS would be much more complicated if this wasn't true!

**What about relative positioning?**

- An exception to this rule is relative positioning, but it's kind of a special case.

- When you give something relative positioning, you're instructing it to move based on its normal position. That normal position is "inherited" from whichever layout mode it happens to be rendered by.

- If you give a flex child relative positioning, that element is technically being rendered in two different layout modes, but they're compatible; the element is first laid out inside the flex container, and then transposed using top/left/right/bottom by positioned layout.

- Similarly, sticky positioning can also work in a flex container, though there is a bit of a "gotcha" there.

## Margin collapse

- In Module 1, we learned about  [margin collapse](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/01-rendering-logic-1/11-margin-collapse-intro). When two block-level elements are adjacent or nested, their margins can overlap, or be absorbed.

- _Margin collapse is exclusive to Flow layout._  It doesn't happen when elements are laid out inside a flexbox parent.

- As the "original" layout mode of the web, Flow is built around documents, and margin collapse makes a lot of sense when documents are concerned. But when we're building layouts for dynamic web applications, collapsing margins don't make as much sense.

## Flexbox and z-index

- The Flexbox algorithm  _also supports z-index_. If our element is being laid out with Flexbox, it uses  `z-index`  as if it was rendered with Positioned layout.

- The same thing is true for CSS Grid; a child in Grid layout can use  `z-index`  without setting  `position: relative`.

- Remember, CSS is comprised of layout modes, and each layout mode decides what each property should do. Positioned, Flexbox, and Grid all implement support for z-index. Flow layout does not.