
# Grid Construction

- Let's start by defining some columns. We do that with the `grid-template-columns` property:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 25% 95%;
  }
</style>
```
- This property controls two things:

	-   The number of columns we want our grid to have
	-   The individual widths of each column

- In this case, we're specifying that we want a 2-column grid, where the first column takes up 25% of the available space, and the second column takes up 75%.

- **Unlike in Flexbox, these values aren't “suggestions”, they're hard limits.**

## Flexible columns

- What if we want our columns to grow if their contents won't otherwise fit?

- For that, we have a new  `fr`  unit:
```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 2fr;
  }
</style>
```

- The  `fr`  unit brings Flexbox-style flexibility to CSS Grid. You can think of it kinda like  `flex-grow`, except that it's operating on the  _columns_, and not on the actual child elements.

- `fr`  stands for “fraction”. In this example, we're saying that the first column should take up 1 "unit" of space, and the second column should take up 2 "units". There are 3 units total, so the first column is 1/3rd, the second column is 2/3rds.

- Like  `flex-grow`, the  `fr`  unit is flexible. In this example, our first column  _wants_  to take up 1/3rd of the available space, but its child is too wide, so it grows to accommodate it.

- This behaviour only happens with the  `fr`  unit (as well as  `auto`). Pixels, rems, and percentages are all hard limits.
- The other thing to note about `fr` is that it distributes _available_ space

- Consider this situation:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 200px 2fr 1fr;
  }
</style>
```

- First, the grid reserves 200px for the first column. Then, it distributes whatever space remains to the other 2. This is how `flex-grow` works when we _don't_ set `flex-basis` to 0.

## Implicit rows

- Our grid will implicitly create as many rows as it needs to.

- How tall will these rows be? By default, they grow and shrink as-needed, based on the children.

- Implicit rows are handy when we're rendering based on some data, like a search results page. We can toss a bunch of items into our grid and trust that each row will be the right size for the content.

## Explicit rows

- When creating whole layouts in CSS Grid, it's common to give each row an explicit height. We can do this with the  `grid-template-rows`  property.

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-rows: 64px 1fr 100px;
    min-height: 100%;
  }
</style>
```

## Out-of-bounds items

Let's imagine we create an explicit CSS Grid with 1 column and 3 rows. By default, each child will be assigned to its own cell.

What happens if we include more than 3 children?

- In this example, we've only declared 3 rows, but added 4 children, so the browser creates a 4th row and squeezes it in. It doesn't cause an overflow, it just means that there's less available space for the other elements.

- It's a bit misleading to think about “implicit grids” and “explicit grids”. It's more accurate to say that  _individual rows / columns_  can be implicit or explicit. An “explicit grid” can still generate implicit columns or rows if we add additional children.

## Gaps

- As with Flexbox, we can build gutters into our grid with the  `gap`  property:
```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
    gap: 8px;
  }
</style>
```

- What if we only want there to be a gap between rows, and not between columns? We can specify two values, one for each direction:
```css
gap: 8px 0px;
```

## The “repeat” function

```css
.calendar {
   grid-template-columns:  250px  repeat(5, 1fr);
}
```

- We're saying that we should repeat the  `1fr`  value 5 times. The end result is the same, but it's easier to read.

- This is most commonly used with the  `fr`  unit, but it doesn't have to be! We can use any unit, like  `repeat(4, 200px)`.