# Alignment

## Aligning columns

For that, we use  `justify-content`:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    justify-content: end;
  }
</style>
```
- The default behaviour in CSS Grid is to stretch the columns to take up all available space.  `justify-content: center`  overrules this behaviour.

- In order to center our column within the grid, it has to figure out how wide that column should be. This is no small task! It has to look at the contents of each row, and figure out which child is widest.

- We can skip this whole process by giving the column an explicit width: 
 ```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 200px;
    justify-content: center;
  }
</style>Ï
 ```


- In addition to  `center`, we also have  `start`  and  `end`. This is similar to  `flex-start`  and  `flex-end`, but since we aren't in Flexbox, we can omit the  `flex-`  prefix.

- We also have the "distributed" options we saw in the Flexbox module:  `space-between`,  `space-around`, and  `space-evenly`. They make more sense when our grid has multiple columns:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 120px 120px 120px;
    justify-content: space-between;
  }
</style>
```
- So, `justify-content` allows us to change how our columns are distributed.

- Normally, a grid child will stretch across the entire width of its column. If we place an element in a 100px-wide column, we'll get a 100px-wide element.

- But that's just the default, it isn't set in stone.  `justify-items`  changes this behaviour so that the child element moves around within its cell.

In other words:

-   `justify-content`  applies to the grid structure, changing the columns.
    
-   `justify-items`  applies to the child elements, without affecting the shape of the grid.

## Aligning rows

In CSS Grid,  `align-content`  is how we align the rows in our grid:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    align-content: space-around;
    height: 300px;
  }
</style>
```

-  `align-items` controls the element's vertical position _within_ the row

- With `align-items`, we control the placement of individual elements within each cell.

## Self-alignment

- In CSS Grid,  `align-self`  apply to specific grid children, and it changes their vertical position within the grid cell.

- We also have  `justify-self`, which changes a particular element's  _horizontal_  position, within the grid CELL