# Growing and Shrinking

- Flexbox width and height will respect the dimenions as hypotheical, where there is room to breathe, else it will shrink to min-content.

- flex-basis - shorthand to setting width or height on main-axis 

- flex-gow - grows as much as possible, overrides flex-basis

- flex-shrink - how fast must an item must shrink, it will work when items are between hypotheical size and min-content size

--   There are two important sizes when dealing with Flexbox: the  _minimum content size_, and the  _hypothetical size_.
    
-   The minimum content size is the smallest an item can get without its contents overflowing.
    
-   Setting  `width`  in a flex row (or  `height`  in a flex column) sets the  _hypothetical_  size. It isn't a guarantee, it's a suggestion.
    
-   `flex-basis`  has the same effect as  `width`  in a flex row (`height`  in a column). You can use them interchangeably, but  `flex-basis`  will win if there's a conflict.

- There is one more difference between `width` and `flex-basis`: `flex-basis` can't scale an element below its minimum content size, but `width` can.
    
-   `flex-grow`  will allow a child to consume any excess space in the container. It has no effect if there isn't any excess space.
    
-   `flex-shrink`  will pick which item to consume space from, if the container is too small. It has no effect if there  _is_  any excess space.
    
-   `flex-shrink`  can't shrink an item below its minimum content size.
	- we can use flex-shrink: 0 for stopping an element to shrink

## Ratios

-  When we use  `flex-grow`  and  `flex-shrink`, we use unit less values like  `1`  or  `10`. They represent _a ratio of the available space_.