# Overflow

- Typically, block elements have _variable height_, so they can grow as-needed to contain their children. But when we constrain the height by setting a specific value, we create an impossible condition.

- The browser solves for this by letting the content spill outside the bounds, but without accounting for it in flow computations

- To help us manage these kinds of situations, the browser makes a property available:  `overflow`.

## Accepted values

- `overflow`  defaults to  `visible`, which allows an element's content to extend beyond its bounds. Let's see what our other options are.

 ### Scroll

- If we know that our content is going to overlap, we can slap an  `overflow: scroll`  declaration on it

- Technically speaking,  `overflow`  is a shorthand for 2 distinct properties:

	-   `overflow-x`
	-   `overflow-y`
	    

- When we pass a single value, it uses that value for both horizontal and vertical axes. If we only want to allow scrolling in 1 direction, though, we can be a bit more precise:

```html
<style>
  .info {
    overflow-y: scroll;
    width: 150px;
    max-height: 100px;
    border: 3px solid;
  }
```

### Auto

- `overflow: auto`  is a "have your cake and eat it too" kind of property. It's recommended for most situations where you want a given element to be scrollable.

- `auto` is a smart value that adds a scrollbar when one is required.

- We won't always know if an element will need a scrollbar or not: windows come in lots of shapes and sizes (not to mention, the content itself might be dynamic!).  `overflow: auto`  is the ideal behaviour when we know an element  _might_  overflow.

**Why use overflow: scroll?**

- Inside an  `auto`  container, a layout shift will occur when the content grows to exceed the available space; the content box shrinks by ~15 pixels, the width of the scrollbar.

- This can be a bit jarring, so if you  _know_  that a container will need to scroll, using  `overflow-y: scroll`  can make for a smoother experience.

### Hidden

- Finally, there's the most extreme option:  `hidden`.

- This option truncates anything that extends beyond the bounds of the container

- Adding detailed comments when using  `overflow: hidden`  is absolutely critical. Otherwise, you'll never remember why you set the property. If you refactor this property away, it won't be immediately obvious that you've broken something; it only causes problems on mobile, and this is primarily a desktop application.

- **My rule of thumb:**  Always add a comment when employing this declaration. Future-you will thank you.