# Scroll Containers

-   When we use  `overflow: scroll`,  `overflow: auto`, or  `overflow: hidden`, we create a scroll container. This is true whether we set the property on the X axis, the Y axis, or both.
    
-   A scroll container is like a portal to a pocket dimension. When an element is contained by a scroll container, it's guaranteed to be stuck inside. It will never overflow beyond the 4 corners of the scroll container.
    
-   Setting  `overflow: hidden`  creates a scroll container and then hides the scrollbars. It follows all the same rules as  `overflow: scroll`. There may not be any visible scrollbars, but it's definitely still a scroll container. We can force it to scroll by tabbing through interactive elements.

## Overflow: clip

- `overflow: clip` works quite a bit like `overflow: hidden`, _but it doesn't create a scroll container_. Essentially, it acts the way most developers think `overflow: hidden`  _should_ work. It trims off any overflow, in one or both directions.

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    overflow-x: clip;
    background: pink;
  }
</style>
```
- With `overflow: clip`, no scroll container is created. Any content that spills outside the bounds of this containing block is made invisible.

- If the container has a `border-radius` set, it will force the clipping to happen in both directions in certain browsers

- So, given these caveats, it might be a _little_ early to start relying on `overflow: clip`.

- `overflow: hidden` has built-in guardrails: interactive elements like links, buttons, and form inputs will be made visible if they're focused, but we lose these guardrails with `overflow: clip`. The onus is on us to test across different devices and screen sizes, to make sure we aren't accidentally building something unusable!

## Workaround

So, let's suppose we don't want to use  `overflow: clip`, because we want something that will work for 100% of users.

```html
<style>
  html, body {
    height: 100%;
  }
  .outer-wrapper {
    overflow-x:hidden;
    min-height: 100%;
    /*
      Adding a border so you can see the
      size/shape of this container:
    */
    border: 2px dashed silver;
  }
  .wrapper {
    background: pink;
  }
</style>

<div class="outer-wrapper">
  <div class="wrapper">
    <div class="flourish one"></div>
    <div class="flourish two"></div>
  </div>
  <p>Hello world</p>
</div>
```
- **Here's how this works:**  I've created a new parent,  `.outer-wrapper`, indicated by the dashed silver border.  _This_  element is going to be the one that hides overflow. And it's going to wrap over  _everything else_  on the page as well.

- Our pink box,  `.wrapper`, is no longer trying to hide the overflow. It no longer creates a scroll container.
- The trick here is that **scroll containers only scroll when there's overflow.** Because `.outer-wrapper` doesn't have a constrained height, the container is free to grow and shrink as much as it wants. As long as I don't explicitly set something like `height: 400px`, we won't get an awkward scrollbar.

- To put it another way: scroll containers only start to scroll when the _inner size_ exceeds the _outer size_. As long as the outer size can keep on growing, that doesn't happen.