# Text Overflow

- The browser groups characters into "words". A word, in this case, is a collection of characters that can't be broken up.  “https://www.google.com”  is a word. So is “kool_kat_99”.

- Words are separated by "breaking characters". The CSS specification refers to them as  [soft wrap opportunities](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-text-3/#line-breaking). Each whitespace character is a soft wrap opportunity. So is the dash character (`-`).

- When content would spill outside the containing block, the browser looks for the closest soft wrap opportunity, and splits everything afterwards to the next line. This process repeats for all of the text.

**Non-breaking spaces**

- Suppose we want to add a space to our paragraph, but in a way that  _doesn't_  create a soft wrap opportunity. In other words, a space that can't be used to line-break.

- There is a special HTML entity that can be used in this case:  `&nbsp;`.

- `&nbsp;` is the code for “Non Breaking Space”. A whitespace character that connects the words on either side into a single unbreakable mega-word.

- Note that `&nbsp;` is a tool designed for this very-specific situation. It shouldn't be used for other purposes (eg. creating indentation).

## Wrapping onto multiple lines

With the  `overflow-wrap`  property, we can linewrap longer words/strings:

```html
<style>
  p {
    overflow-wrap: break-word;
  }
</style>
```
- `overflow-wrap: break-word`  tweaks the text-placing algorithm. If the browser realizes that it can't fit the current word,  _and_  it doesn't have any spare soft wrap opportunities, this declaration gives the browser permission to break after any character.

- This property is supported across all browsers. In Internet Explorer, the property is called  `word-wrap`  instead of  `overflow-wrap`, so you'll need to supply both properties if targeting IE.

### Hyphenation

- `overflow-wrap: break-word`  splits long words across multiple lines without any visual indication that a word has been split.

- In print media, where splitting words is much more common, a convention has been created for it: the hyphen.

- A hyphen is a dash character (`-`) used to join two segments of the same word.

- Adding hyphens is not part of the text-placement algorithm, but we can add it in with the `hyphens` property:

```html
<style>
  p {
    overflow-wrap: break-word;
    hyphens: auto;
    
    /* Prefix for Safari */
    -webkit-hyphens: auto;
  }
</style>
```

- For best results, I like to combine  `hyphens`  with  `overflow-wrap`. The hyphens might not always show up, but at least the layout should never break.

- In terms of text selection, the hyphens will not be selectable. This is good, since it means line-broken URLs can be copy/pasted properly.

**Gotchas**

- `hyphens: auto`  only works if the  `lang`  attribute is set on the  `<html>`  tag (and it mainly only works in English, though some browsers have added hyphen support for other languages;  [see a complete list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/hyphens#browser_compatibility)  on MDN).

- Also,  `hyphens: auto`  varies quite a bit between browsers and devices. Chrome will add hyphens to a long URL on MacOS, but not on Windows. Firefox doesn't support  [hyphenated words on proper nouns](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1550532).

## Ellipsis

- Another option is that we can trail off, leaving the sentence unfinis…

```html
<style>
  p {
    overflow: hidden;
    text-overflow: ellipsis;
  }
</style>
```

- Weirdly, we need `overflow: hidden` in order for `text-overflow` to work. A bit odd, but it is what it is.

- Overflow management kicks in _after_ the line-breaking algorithm. First, the browser figures out where to put the line-breaks. Then, it figures out what to do about the overflow.

- In order to truncate the content, we need to disable line-wrapping altogether. We can do that with  `white-space: nowrap`:

```css
tbody th {
+ white-space: nowrap;
  overflow: hidden;
  text-overflow: ellipsis;
  max-width: 250px;
}
```

**Use with caution**

- Before we add these properties, we should stop and think about the usability implications. Will the user still be able to use our product if they can't see the rest of the text?

- Ellipses are also useful when showing previews/abstracts.

- If the user isn't already familiar with the values, or the text can't be expanded to view the full thing, we should pick an alternative solution that doesn't conceal the text.