# Print-style Layouts

## Column layout

- This layout mode is fairly niche, but it does something that no other layout mode can do: automatically split content across multiple columns, in a manner that allows the parent container to grow and shrink accordingly.

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    columns: 2;
    column-gap: 16px;
    padding: 16px;
  }

  p {
    margin-bottom: 16px;
  }
</style>
```
- If we want to make sure that a particular child isn't broken across columns, like that third paragraph, we can do so with the following declaration:
```css
p {
  break-inside: avoid;
}
```

- The algorithm's chief concern is distributing content evenly so that all columns are the same height. It's very good at its job; it re-evaluates whenever new content is added, to find the ideal distribution. This obscure layout mode can accomplish things that no other layout mode can.

## Floats

- Floats allow text to "wrap around" an embedded element.

- A floated element is like a boulder in a stream; the other content flows smoothly around it. In this case, text wraps seamlessly around an image, but we can use this trick for  _any_  embedded element, not just images!

- We can choose which side the element should be floated by passing either  `left`  or  `right`  to the  `float`  property.

- Floated items don't come with any default margin. This means that the surrounding text will run _right up_ to the floated element, which often feels claustrophobic. By adding `margin-right` to a left-floated element, we create a bit of buffer around it.

## Indentation

- On the web, it's conventional for paragraphs to be differentiated through spacing; we can tell where the paragraphs are because there's a bunch of space between them.

- using the `text-indent` CSS property:
```html
<style>
  p {
    text-indent: 2rem;
  }
</style>
```
- `::first-letter` is still useful for certain typographical effects, like "drop caps" (a larger first letter, typically on the first paragraph in a page/chapter).

## Justified alignment

In print, it's common for text to be "justified" — this means that the spacing between each word is tweaked so that each line fills the available horizontal space:

```html
<style>
  p {
    text-align: justify;
    padding: 16px;
  }
</style>

```