# Font Stacks

- The  `font-family`  property is how we change the font for a given element (and its children, since the property is inheritable).

- Curiously, it's usually given multiple comma-separated values:
```css
.title {
  font-family:  'Lato', Futura, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif
}
```

- This acts as a sort of "preference list". We've given the browser a list of fonts we'd like to use, in priority order. Ideally, it'll pick the first one, but if it's not available, it can use the second, or the third, or the fourth.

- The last font in the list should always be the "category" for the font, like  `serif`,  `sans-serif`,  `monospace`, or  `cursive`. This ensures that if none of the other options are available, the browser will use its default font for that category.

- Fonts can be unavailable for two reasons:

	-   The font isn't installed on the user's device.
	-   The font is a web font, and it hasn't yet been downloaded.
	    

- While every operating system comes with dozens of fonts, there are only a small handful that are "universally" available. Fonts like:

	-   Arial	
	-   Courier New
	-   Georgia
	-   Helvetica
	-   Tahoma
	-   Times New Roman

- So the goal with a font stack is to provide a menu of fonts that the browser can pick from, making sure that every user sees an acceptable font and nobody sees the (usually quite ugly) default serif browser font.

## System font stack

- A rising trend in recent years is to use the "system font stack". This is a stack of fonts that default to the nicest default option for each platform.

- It looks like this:
```css
p {
  font-family:
 -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, avenir next, avenir, segoe ui,
 helvetica neue, helvetica, Ubuntu, roboto, noto, arial, sans-serif;
}
```
- The system font stack is nice because it automatically matches the conventions of the user's device.

**CSS Variables to the rescue!**

- When it comes to working with the system font stack, CSS variables make life way nicer:
```css
html  {
  --font-sans-serif:
 -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, avenir next, avenir, segoe ui,
 helvetica neue, helvetica, Ubuntu, roboto, noto, arial, sans-serif;
  --font-serif:
 Iowan Old Style, Apple Garamond, Baskerville, Times New Roman,
 Droid Serif, Times, Source Serif Pro, serif, Apple Color Emoji,
 Segoe UI Emoji, Segoe UI Symbol;
 
  /* Set a global default */
  font-family:  var(--font-sans-serif);
}

/* Apply different fonts as needed */
p {
  font-family:  var(--font-serif);
}
```