# Grid Flow and Layout Modes


- Like Flexbox, we can enable the Grid layout mode with the  `display`  property:
```css
.wrapper  {
  display: grid;
}
```
- This creates as an _implicit grid_. We haven't told the engine what the rows and columns should be, and so it's come up with its own grid, based on the number of children.

- Implicit grids want to fill the available space. Notice that the elements stretch across the horizontal space like block-level elements in Flow.

- Use Devtools to analyse CSS Grid

## Grid auto flow

- So far, all of the grids we've seen have been 1 × 𝓃, where 𝓃 is the number of children. We wind up with a single column and 𝓃 rows.

- What if we want to distribute the elements horizontally instead of vertically, though?

- We can change the flow direction for implicit grids with the  `grid-auto-flow`  property

- When we change `grid-auto-flow` from `row` to `column`, we're not fundamentally changing the orientation of our grid; everything stays the same, except for the fact that our grid will have multiple columns instead of multiple rows.

- Grid parents _aren't always_ block-level elements though. For example, we can have our grid parent be an inline element with `display: inline-grid` (though I have yet to uncover a realistic use case for this). We can even nest grids

- Here's the thing: `display: inline` is a declaration that only makes sense in a Flow context. In grid context, it has no effect. We can remove it, and nothing would change.

- When we set `position: absolute`, we overrule this default behavior. An absolutely-positioned child cannot participate in grid layout. As far as the parent grid is concerned, this element doesn't exist.

- When we say "out of flow", what we really mean is that the element isn't participating in the current layout. An out-of-flow child will ignore all of the rules that would otherwise apply to it.