# Fluid Grids

```html
<style>
  .grid {
    display: grid;
    gap: 16px;
    grid-template-columns:
      repeat(auto-fill, minmax(150px, 1fr));
  }
</style>
```
- It's useful when we have a list of items that we want to render, like a group of cards. We want them to be uniform, and to tile nicely no matter what the screen size is, or how many items we have.

## Clamping with minmax

- Earlier, we saw how  [the “min”, “max”, and “clamp” functions](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/05-responsive-css/12-clamping-values)  can be used to constrain a specific value between a lower and/or upper bound.

- CSS Grid has a similar function:  `minmax`.

```html
<style>
  .grid {
    display: grid;
    gap: 16px;
    grid-template-columns:
      minmax(50px, 1fr)
      minmax(250px, 1fr);
  }
</style>
```

- Here's my mental model for what's going on here: we want to have two equal-width columns (both  `1fr`), but our first column should never shrink below 50px, while the second one shouldn't shrink below 250px.

- It's essentially a way to set a  `min-width`  on our grid columns.

- Similarly,  `minmax`  allows us to set a  `min-height`  when used with  `grid-template-rows`.

- One quick gotcha: the flexible unit has to come last.  `minmax(1fr, 250px)`  is invalid, because  `1fr`  isn't a valid "minimum" value.

## Generating columns with auto-fill

- Earlier, we saw how the  `repeat`  function can save us a bit of typing
`repeat`  has another trick up its sleeve, though: it accepts  _special keywords_  in addition to straight-up numbers.

- Let's say we have some cards that are exactly 150px wide. We want to fill the grid with as many 150px-wide columns as possible.

- We can do that with  `auto-fill`

```html
<style>
  .grid {
    display: grid;
    gap: 16px;
    grid-template-columns:
      repeat(3, 150px);
    justify-content:center;
  }
</style>
```
- as the available space increases, so too does the number of columns.

- When the available space isn't a perfect multiple of 150px, we have some leftover space. We can control how the columns are aligned with  `justify-content`
- `auto-fill` allows us to implement _fluid principles_ in CSS Grid. As we saw in [a previous module](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/05-responsive-css/17-fluid-design), fluid design uses constraints that shift automatically based on the container size, rather than specifying explicit behaviour at particular viewport sizes.

## Putting them together

- Alright, so we know that  `minmax`  lets us clamp a value to a specific range, and we know that  `repeat`  takes a special value,  `auto-fill`, which generates a dynamic number of columns.

- When we put them together, we recreate the World Famous Grid Snippet:
```css
grid-template-columns:
      repeat(auto-fill, minmax(150px, 1fr));
```

Here's how this algorithm works:

1.  Figure out how many columns we can fit at the minimum acceptable size, 150px.
    
2.  Scale up each column so that the entire horizontal space is filled
    

- If the container is 450px wide, we can fit exactly 3 columns at 150px, and there's no leftover space.

### auto-fill vs. auto-fit

- Most of the time, these two properties work exactly the same way, and can be used interchangeably. There is one significant difference, though.

- This is the fundamental difference between `auto-fill` (lots of empty columns) and `auto-fit` (stretched ultra-wide columns).

- Personally, I almost always use `auto-fill`. since it ensures consistency in my grid no matter how many items I have. But if you want to make sure the elements span 100% of the available space, `auto-fit` has you covered.

## Responsive tweaks

### The responsive approach

- We can always use a media query that changes the grid structure when we get below the minimum threshold.

- When our viewport is smaller, we'll stick with a much-more-simple grid layout: a single column. We'll only use our World Famous Grid Snippet on larger screens, when we have enough space for it.

```html
<style>
  .grid {
    display: grid;
    padding: 16px;
    gap: 16px;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr;
  }

  @media (min-width: 450px) {
    .grid {
      grid-template-columns:
        repeat(
          auto-fill,
          minmax(400px, 1fr)
        );
    }
  }
</style>
```

- **Note that the media query has a 50px buffer.**  I flip the switch at 450px, even though our minimum card width is 400px. This adds enough space for padding (32px total, 16px on each side), and a scrollbar (10-15px depending on operating system).

### The fluid approach

- Alternatively, we can add yet another constraint to our snippet:

```html
<style>
  .grid {
    display: grid;
    padding: 16px;
    gap: 16px;
    grid-template-columns:
      repeat(
        auto-fill,
        minmax(min(400px, 100%), 1fr)
      );
  }
</style>
```
- When working on a team with a bunch of other devs, though, I might reach for the responsive approach instead. Most JS devs aren't super comfortable with these advanced CSS techniques (which is in part why I built this course!), and I don't want to write code that is inscrutable to my coworkers.