# Grid Recipes

## Two-Line Center

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    justify-content: center;
    align-content: center;
  }
</style>

```
- Because we're setting `justify-content` and `align-content` to the same value, we can take advantage of a nifty shorthand:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    place-content: center;
  }
</style>
```
- The `place-content` property will set both `justify-content` and `align-content` at the same time. This means that we now have a CSS centering trick that's **just 2 declarations long!**

## Sticky Grids

- One of the neat things about CSS Grid is that's highly interoperable with other layout methods in CSS.

## Full Bleed Layouts

- Having an element stretch from edge to edge is known as a "full-bleed" element, a term borrowed from the publishing world when magazine ads would be printed right to the edge of the page.

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns:
      1fr
      min(30ch, 100%)
      1fr;
  }
  .wrapper > * {
    grid-column: 2;
  }
  .full-bleed {
    grid-column: 1 / -1;
  }
  
  .meerkat {
    display: block;
    width: 100%;
    height: 300px;
    object-fit: cover;
  }
</style>
```

### Column assignments

- As we start adding children to this grid, they'll be assigned into the first available cell. This doesn't work for us: we want all of our content to be assigned to that middle column by default!

That's where this CSS comes in:
```css
.wrapper > * {
  grid-column:  2;
}
```

- The asterisk (`*`) is a wildcard: it matches everything. This means that every child we pop into this grid will be lined up inside the 2nd column.

### Full-bleed children

- Finally, we need a way to "opt in" to the full-bleed behaviour!

- That's where this fella comes in:

```css
.full-bleed  {
  grid-column:  1  /  -1;
}
```

- Any child that applies the  `.full-bleed`  class will stretch from the first column line to the last column line.