
# Contoured Shadows

- As we saw earlier, many CSS filters are designed to work well with images. It seems like they're plucked straight from Photoshop!

- `filter: drop-shadow`  continues this trend.

- In Photoshop, when you add a drop shadow to a layer, it applies that shadow to the  _opaque pixels_  in the layer. It doesn't form a rectangle around the layer itself!

- This means that if we use  `filter: drop-shadow`  on an image that supports transparency (eg. png, gif, svg), the shadow will apply to the non-transparent parts of the image

- This effect isn't limited to images, either—it works for any DOM node!

- When we apply `filter: drop-shadow` to an element, it contours that element and all of its descendants (even non-contiguous ones, like the smaller circle!), and applies the shadow to that shape.

- We can even apply `filter: drop-shadow` to a _group_ of elements, to make sure we don't have any "shadow overlap":

```html
<style>
  /*
    Apply the shadow to the grid parent,
    not the individual grid elements!
  */
  .grid {
    filter: drop-shadow(
      2px 4px 32px hsl(0deg 0% 0% / 0.4)
    );
  }
</style>
```

- This can prevent the unsightly overlap that happens when `box-shadow` is used on tightly-grouped siblings

 **Safari quirks (warning)**

- Sometimes,  `filter: drop-shadow`  produces some really funky effects in Safari

- you should definitely test your drop shadows on Safari to make sure they aren't glitchy!

- This quirk is specifically with  `filter: drop-shadow`.  `box-shadow`  works consistently.