# Designing Shadows

## Why even use shadows?

- Shadows imply elevation, and bigger shadows imply more elevation. If we use shadows strategically, we can create the illusion of depth, as if different elements on the page are floating above the background at different levels.

- The best websites and web applications feel tactile and genuine, as if the browser is a window into a different world. Shadows help sell that illusion.

- There's also a tactical benefit here as well. By using different shadows on the header and dialog box, we create the impression that the dialog box is closer to us than the header is. Our attention tends to be drawn to the elements closest to us, and so by elevating the dialog box, we make it more likely that the user focuses on it first. We can use elevation as a tool to direct attention.

- When I use shadows, I do it with one of these purposes in mind. Either I want to increase the prominence of a specific element, or I want to make my application feel more tactile and life-like.

## Creating a consistent environment

- If our goal is to create the illusion of depth, we need each and every shadow to match.

- In the natural world, shadows are cast from a light source. The direction of the shadows depends on the position of the light.

- In general, we should decide on a single light source for all elements on the page. It's common for that light source to be above and slightly to the left

- If CSS had a real lighting system, we would specify a position for one or more lights. Sadly, CSS has no such thing.

- Instead, we shift the shadow around by specifying a horizontal offset and a vertical offset. In the image above, for example, the resulting shadow has a 4px vertical offset and a 2px horizontal offset.

- Here's the first trick for cohesive shadows:  **every shadow on the page should share the same ratio**. This will make it seem like every element is lit from the same very-far-away light source, like the sun.

So, to summarize:

1.  Each element on the page should be lit from the same global light source.
    
2.  The  `box-shadow`  property represents the light source's position using horizontal and vertical offsets. To ensure consistency, each shadow should use the same ratio between these two numbers.
    
3.  As an element gets closer to the user, the offset should increase, the blur radius should increase, and the shadow's opacity should decrease.
    
4.  You can skip some of these calculations by using our intuition.