# Web Fonts

- If we want to use a font that doesn't come pre-installed on the user's device, we can download and use a custom font!

- There are lots of ways to do it.

## Using Google Fonts

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)  is an online repository of free, open-source web fonts. They have hundreds of popular options.

- It also effectively works as a CDN for fonts; they serve the fonts for us, from their own servers.

- The snippet will download a stylesheet which downloads a font.

- Web fonts should be wrapped in quotes (`'Open Sans'`, not `Open Sans`). This isn't strictly required if your web font is a single word, but it's a helpful convention: it indicates which fonts in the stack are web fonts vs. local fonts.

- The main benefit to Google Fonts is that it's nice and easy. Drop an HTML snippet in your app, and you're good to go!

There are some downsides, though:

-   Lots of amazing fonts aren't available on Google Fonts
    
-   Self-hosted web fonts can perform better
    
## Using modern tooling

- Vercel, the company behind the Next.js framework, has released an interesting free resource called  [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/).

- The idea with Fontsource is that it provides an easy-to-use method to install and use  _self-hosted_  web fonts. It's built specifically for modern JS applications, letting you NPM install the fonts you wish to use. They support all Google Fonts, as well as additional open-source free-to-use fonts.

- You can learn more by  [reading their documentation](https://fontsource.org/docs/introduction).

## The manual way

- What if you want to use a font that isn't available on Google Fonts or Fontsource?

### Converting formats

- The fonts that run on our computers typically come in  `.otf`  or  `.ttf`  file formats. These file formats were never intended to be used on the web, and their files tend to be relatively enormous.

- Our first order of business is to convert our font into a web-friendly format. You can use online converter tools like  [Fontsquirrel's webfont generator](https://www.fontsquirrel.com/tools/webfont-generator).

### The font-face tag

How do we tell the browser that we want to use a web font? The  `@font-face`  at-rule has us covered:

```css
@font-face  {
	font-family:  'Wotfard';
	src:  url('/fonts/wotfard-regular.woff2')  format('woff2');
	font-weight:  400;
	font-style: normal;
}
```
- We need multiple statements because each font weight and style has its own file. In this case, I'm loading 3 different font weights (regular, medium, and bold) and an italic variant for the regular weight.

- The font file itself doesn't contain any "metadata" about what weight/style it is, so we need to link them up. That's what all the declarations in the  `@font-face`  statement are doing. We specify the source for a set of characters (`src`), and then the associated metadata with that set (`font-family`,  `font-weight`,  `font-style`).

- Our goal is to start loading the fonts ASAP, so I like to put these `@font-face` statements right in the `index.html`

- When those `@font-face` statements are parsed by the browser, the font file declared under `src` will be fetched and loaded. You can use the font in your CSS the way you'd use any font

**Static files in React**

- One of the tricky things about React is that you can't access static files like fonts or images in the same way you would in a standard HTML/CSS project.

- It's beyond the scope of this course, but check out the following guides depending on your generator/meta-framework:

	-   [create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/using-the-public-folder/)   
	-   [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/static-file-serving)
	 
## Faux bolds and italics

- Browser-generated faux-bolds are much less sophisticated; they just make the lines thicker.

- Similarly, when it comes to italics, the browser simply slants the letters, whereas true italics use alternate characters

- I  suggest sticking to the font weights that are available, to avoid confusion. I also suggest using numbers (`700`) rather than keywords (`bold`), because it's more explicit.