# Designing Animations

## Types of animation

- In her amazing book [“Animation At Work”](https://abookapart.com/products/animation-at-work), author Rachel Nabors describes 5 common categories of animation:

  1.  _Transitions_ change the content on the page in a significant way, like moving from one page to another, a modal opening or closing, or a multi-step wizard moving to the next step.
  2.  _Supplements_ add or remove information from the page, without changing their "location" or task. For example, a notification might pop up in the corner.
  3.  _Feedback_ helps the user understand how the application has responded to user input. For example, an error message appearing when submitting a form, or a button sliding down on click to indicate that it's being depressed.
  4.  _Demonstrations_ are used for education, a way of showing the user how something works. Many of the animations on this platform, like the visualizations in [the “Rules of Margin Collapse” lesson](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/01-rendering-logic-1/12-rules-of-margin-collapse), fit into this category.
  5.  _Decorations_ are aesthetic and don't affect the information on the page. For example, confetti to celebrate a piece of good news being delivered to the user.

- Of these categories, decorations are often dismissed as frivolous. And they certainly can be! But I'm of the view that each of these categories is valid and valuable. The important thing is that you understand _why_ you're adding animation: which of these categories does it fit into? How does it help the user?

- Every animation we add should have a purpose behind it. We shouldn't add animation just to be fancy. Animation can make a product feel more polished, but only when it's thoughtful, and it's clear to the user why it exists.

## Animation duration

- The generally-acceptable range of durations is from **200ms to 500ms**. There are definitely exceptions, but I'd say that 80%+ of my animations fit within that range.
