# Action-Driven Animation

**Quick vs. slow values(info)**

- In the modal example earlier, the enter animation was a typical speed, and the exit animation was much quicker.

- In this button example, though, it's switched: the enter animation is quick, and the exit animation is slow.

Why is that?

- The modal animation is a "transition" type of animation, according to our 5 categories. When the user is done with the modal, they need to transition to a different page, and that transition is a blocking process; they can't do anything until the animation is completed. For that reason, I want it to happen quickly.

- In the case of this button animation, though, it's a "feedback" type of animation. They aren't blocked from continuing until the button shrinks back to its regular size, so we don't have the same concern.

- But why change the values? I like when buttons jump up to attention quickly, like they're eager to be clicked on. For the exit animation, though, the user's attention is likely elsewhere, so I want it to be more subtle so that it fades into the background.

- None of this is set in stone; feel free to use different values! This is just my own set of principles.

# Orchestration

Instead of everything happening all at once, the individual elements are staggered:

- The backdrop starts fading in right away, and lasts a long time (1000ms).
- The modal waits for 250ms, and then slides in over 400ms
- The close button is now hidden by default, and is given its own unique transition. It starts animating after 600ms, and lasts 250ms.
