# Summary

- One of the hardest parts of working with styles in modern component-based applications is dealing with all the variations. Unfortunately, a single  `Button`  component might have  _lots_  of different presentations depending on the context.

- In this module, we've seen a lot of ways to add or tweak styles, and it may not be clear which to use when. Let's review the methods we've seen, and consider when they come in handy.

## Core options through props

- When we created our  `Button`  component, we added props for  `variant`  and  `size`.

- Most of the reusable components we create will take a small number of props for their "core" options. These options will map to specific styles that get applied within the component.

## Composition with styled()

- It's important not to add  _too many_  core options. It would be hard to use (not to mention maintain!)

- As our application grows, we'll wind up with lots of "one-off" requirements, like our `SpookyButton` from earlier. We can solve for these problems using composition.

- How do we decide whether a property is a "core option" or a "one-off variant"? Admittedly, sometimes the line can be a little blurry. Use your best judgment, and remember that you can always change your mind later! If the  `Button`  component starts to feel too overwhelming, with too many options, consider extracting a couple composed variants to lighten the mental load.

- The goal should be to have props for every-day common use cases, and one-offs for niche, specialized situations.

## Contextual styles

- Sometimes, we want to apply a style only when it's within another component, or in a specific situation.

- In these cases, it's less about picking the right prop for a job, and more about  _changing the defaults_.

- We saw this in the last lesson. It's a technique I call "**Inversion of control nesting"**
- This technique is useful when we want a change to be "implicit". It saves the developer (us) from having to remember to use a specific variant prop in a specific situation.