# Smooth Scrolling

- We can enable it site-wide with 1 CSS declaration:
```css
@media  (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)  {
	html  {
		scroll-behavior: smooth;
	}
}
```

- It's important to gate this property behind a  `prefers-reduced-motion`  media query; the fast-scrolling animation is exactly the sort of motion that can be problematic for some people.

- Smooth scrolling is disabled by default. The default value for the  `scroll-behavior`  property is  `auto`, which jump-cuts the user to the new location.

**Scroll-jacking(warning)**

- In this lesson, we're focused exclusively on  _action-driven scrolling_  — the user clicks a link or a button, and the browser takes them to the appropriate place.

- You might be wondering how to implement "general" smooth scrolling, so that when the user scrolls through the page, a smooth effect is used.

- **This is known as “scroll-jacking, and it's never a good idea.**  Most people  _hate_  when a website changes how it feels to scroll up/down the page. It feels like a loss of control.

- It's also  _impossible_  to do well. You might create the most natural-feeling scroll effect for folks using finger scrolling, but that same effect will feel terrible for someone using a mouse wheel. There is a surprisingly wide array of scroll inputs used, and they all have different characteristics. There is no smooth scrolling that works well for all of them.

## Customizing the scroll behavior

- `scroll-behavior`  doesn't let us tweak the duration or easing of the scroll animation. It's up to the browser and the operating system.

## Accessing in JavaScript

- Sometimes, we want to control scroll position from within JavaScript. For example, maybe we want to scroll the user to the top of the page when they submit a form:
```js
function  handleSubmit(ev)  {
  window.scrollTo(0,  0);
}
```

- By default, the  `scrollTo`  method will inherit the behavior specified in CSS. If you've added  `scroll-behavior: smooth`  to the  `html`  tag,  `window.scrollTo`  will automatically be smooth!

- We can also manually specify scroll behaviour, using the long-form version of this method:
```js
const prefersReducedMotion =  getPrefersReducedMotion();
window.scrollTo({
  top:  0,
  left:  0,
  behavior: prefersReducedMotion ?  'auto'  :  'smooth',
});
```

## Scrolling into view

- The  `scrollTo`  method takes a pixel value. This is good for scrolling users to the very top of the page, but what if you want to scroll them to a particular element? Like, say, the main heading of the page?

- The  `scrollIntoView`  method is perfect for this:

```js
const prefersReducedMotion =  getPrefersReducedMotion();
const target =  document.querySelector('.title');
target?.scrollIntoView({
  behavior: prefersReducedMotion ?  'auto'  :  'smooth',
})
```

## SPA trouble

- If you're working in a single-page application (eg. a React app), you may notice some curious behaviour with smooth scrolling.

- In a traditional server-rendered application, clicking a link would load an entirely new HTML file, with the scroll position being instantly reset to the top. In a SPA, though, the navigation happens client-side.

- On this course platform, the user is scrolled to the top of the page when a new lesson is loaded, but this happens from within JS! So when the JS framework tries to restore the scroll position, simulating a traditional server-rendered application, smooth scrolling gets in the way.

* There are other little issues too. For example, closing a full-screen playground triggers a weird animated scroll.

- To solve these problems, I've disabled page-wide smooth scrolling, and opted in on a case-by-case basis.

- We can create a `SmoothScrollTo` component that uses smooth scrolling for specific links:

```js
function  SmoothScrollTo({ id, children })  {
const prefersReducedMotion =  usePrefersReducedMotion();

function  handleClick(ev)  {
	// Disable the default anchor-clicking behavior
	// of scrolling to the element
	ev.preventDefault();
	const target =  document.querySelector(`#${id}`);
		target?.scrollIntoView({
		behavior: prefersReducedMotion ?  'auto'  :  'smooth',
	  });
}

return  (
	<a
		href={`#${id}`}
		onClick={handleClick}
		>
		  {children}
	</a>
 )
}
```

- Using this method, we can be very precise with our smooth-scrolling, while still leveraging the native behavior built into the browser.