# Scroll Snapping

- We want to implement  _scroll snapping_, so that when the user stops scrolling, the scroll automatically shifts so that the nearest element is fitted to the screen.

- Fortunately, these days, we can do this in a couple lines of CSS!

## Implementation

There are two primary scroll-snap properties:

-   `scroll-snap-type`  — this controls the direction and precision of the scroll snapping.
    
-   `scroll-snap-align`  — this controls which part of the child we want to snap.

- Here's how these properties get used:

```html
<style>
  .wrapper {
    scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;
  }
  .box {
    scroll-snap-align: start;
  }
</style>
```

- `scroll-snap-type`  goes on the parent, and we control which axis we want to snap to. We also need to give it a "precision", either  `mandatory`  or  `proximity`.

- `mandatory`  means that the element will  _always_  snap, no matter what. If the element has been scrolled by 49%, it will snap back to the beginning. If it's 51%, it'll jump to the next one

- `proximity` is more subtle, and it only triggers a snap when the user is near a snap point

- What exactly does "near" mean, in this case? The specific heuristics are controlled by the browser. We can't control where the threshold is.

- The second property is  `scroll-snap-align`. This property lets us set the snap point for the children. In this case, we chose  `start`, since we want the left edge of the element to snap to the left edge of the container.

- In other situations, we may wish to snap to the center of the element. Center snap alignment helps when we want to see "previews" of sibling elements on either side:

```css
<style>
  .wrapper {
    scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;
    padding: 32px;
  }
  .box {
    margin-left: 16px;
    margin-right: 16px;
    min-width: calc(100% - 32px);
    scroll-snap-align: center;
  }
</style>
```

- `scroll-snap-align: start`, where the anchor is on the left edge of the element, snapping to the left edge of the parent container