# Scrollbar Colors

- There's an important distinction, though, between two different ways to tweak scrollbar styles:

	1.  We can make the scrollbar ostentatious, brightly-colored, as a design statement.
	    
	2.  We can tweak the scrollbar so that it fits the theme of our application, helping it blend in.
    

- If we veer too far away from the platform default, some users might not recognize that it's a functional scrollbar. They might assume it's a border, and not even attempt to use it to navigate. As a result, some say that this is a potential accessibility issue.

- By choosing more-subtle colors, the sidebar blends in with the application. It's still clearly recognizable as a scrollbar, but it isn't monopolizing the user's focus.

## Examining scrollbars

- The scrollbar is made up of at least 2 components: the _thumb_ and the _track_

- Every operating system has its own scrollbar, and this scrollbar will be used for just about all applications. This means that scrollbars aren't usually browser-specific, they're OS-specific.

- There is no universal standard when it comes to scrollbar thickness. Historically, they've hovered between 12px and 17px wide, but we shouldn't make any assumptions about their width.

- Scrolling on mobile devices is a bit different. On mobile, there is no visible scrollbar. When you drag the screen, a thumb appears along the right edge, to provide context for where you are on the page.

## Changing colors

```css
body  {
  scrollbar-color: color1 color2;
}
```

-`scrollbar-color`  accepts two color values. The first color is for the thumb, the second color for the track.

- Unfortunately, these properties are only supported in Firefox at the moment. For all other browsers, we'll need to rely on legacy vendor-prefixed alternatives.

- They work a bit differently. Instead of a unique property, we'll use the familiar  `background-color`  property, but apply it on global pseudo-elements:

```css
::-webkit-scrollbar  {
  /* Track color */
  background-color: color2;
}

::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb  {
  /* Thumb color */
  background-color: color1;
}
```


```css
html {
  --color-thumb: lime;
  --color-track: white;

  /* Official styles (Firefox) */
  scrollbar-color:
    var(--color-thumb)
    var(--color-track);
  scrollbar-width: thin;
}

/* Vendor prefix for other browsers */
::-webkit-scrollbar {
  background-color: var(--color-track);
}
::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb {
  background-color: var(--color-thumb);
}
```

- Many CSS properties can be used inside the  `-webkit-scrollbar`  pseudo-elements!

- By using  `border`  and  `border-radius`, we can create something that looks roughly the same across all browsers

```css
html {
  --background: hsl(210deg, 15%, 6.25%);
  --text: hsl(210deg, 10%, 90%);
  --gray-300: hsl(210deg, 10%, 40%);
  --gray-500: hsl(210deg, 8%, 50%);

  /* Official styles (Firefox) */
  scrollbar-color:
    var(--gray-300)
    var(--background);
  scrollbar-width: thin;
}

::-webkit-scrollbar {
  width: 10px;
  background-color: var(--background);
}
::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb {
  border-radius: 1000px;
  background-color: var(--gray-300);
  border: 10px solid var(--background);
}
/*
  Little bonus: on non-Firefox browsers,
  the thumb will light up on hover!
*/
::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb:hover {
  background-color: var(--gray-500);
}
```

- We can't use  `padding`  to increase the space around the thumb, but we can fake it with a border that matches the track color.

- A  `:hover`  pseudoselector allows us to brighten the color on mouse-over.

## Mobile scrollbar styles

- On mobile devices, the scrollbar doesn't take up any space; the thumb floats above the content. And it's fairly inobtrusive. If our goal is to create a well-blended scrollbar, our custom CSS might do more harm than good!

Therefore, I wrap my scrollbar styles in a media query:
```css
@media  (min-width:  500px)  {
	html  {
	scrollbar-color:  /* ... */;
	}

	::-webkit-scrollbar  {
	/* ... */
	}

	::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb  {
	/* ... */
	}
}
```