# Scroll Optimization

- There are a couple handy optimizations we can add, to improve the experience when it comes to scrolling.

 ## Scroll margin

- Clicking a link will scroll the page so that the matched heading sits right at the top of the viewport.

-  what if you have a fixed or sticky header? In that case, the heading will be hidden behind that element

- This used to be a pretty annoying problem to solve, but fortunately, it's gotten quite a bit easier: we can use the  `scroll-margin-top`  property!

```css
h2  {
  scroll-margin-top:  6rem;
}
```

- We're defining the distance that an element should sit from the top of the viewport when it's scrolled into view! You can experiment with different values until you find the one that feels right.

## Avoiding scroll-based layout shifts

- Have you heard of the CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift) metric?

- Created by Google, CLS is a measure of how much movement there is on the page, typically in the first few seconds as the page is loading.

There are two reasons that it's important to optimize for CLS:

1.  Layout shifts are unpleasant! They're jarring and chaotic, and they can cause you to accidentally click on the wrong thing.
    
2.  Starting in 2021, Google has incorporated CLS into its search ranking algorithm, meaning that focusing on CLS can help improve SEO.
    

- The CLS metric measures two things: how many items move, and how significant the shift is. A small icon moving by a few pixels won't be judged as harshly as a big element popping into view and pushing all of the content down.

- Optimizing CLS is a huge topic, but there's a quick win we can tackle entirely on the CSS side:
```css
body  {
  overflow-y: scroll;
}
```

- This CSS property ensures that the page will  _always_  have a visible scrollbar, even if the page isn't tall enough to warrant one.

- Why is this a good thing? When the scrollbar pops into view,  _it causes a layout shift_. Every element on the page shifts a few pixels to the left, to make room for the scrollbar.

- As wild as it sounds, we can drastically improve our CLS score by making sure the page starts with a scrollbar, rather than waiting for it to appear after the data loads.

- It's up to you whether you want to do this site-wide, or only on pages that you know will require a scrollbar once all the data loads.

**Scroll container side-effects(warning)**

- When we add  `overflow-y: scroll`  to the  `body`  tag, we turn it into a  [scroll container](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/02-rendering-logic-2/14-overflow#scroll-containers). This means that instead of having a document-based page scroll, we'll instead be scrolling within the body element.

- This trick can still be worthwhile, at least until `scrollbar-gutter` lands! Just be sure to test carefully, and maybe avoid it if fullscreen video is a core part of your product.

### Other CLS wins

Here are some other tricks I've learned around optimizing CLS:

### Fixed image sizes

Unless you give images a width and height, the browser won't know their dimensions until the image finishes loading. As a result, images will default to being 0px wide and 0px tall, and a big layout shift will occur when the image loads!

To prevent this, we need to specify two of the following CSS properties:

-   `width`
    
-   `height`
    
-   `aspect-ratio`
    

`aspect-ratio`  means that we can solve this problem even if the image is fluid / scales with the container!

It does mean that you'll need to know the image's intrinsic dimensions before the image loads. This can be tricky if the image is dynamic, but you can solve this by storing the image dimensions in your data model (eg. if blog posts have images, be sure to store the  `width`  and  `height`  in the DB, not just the  `src`!).

If all else fails, you can always prescribe a fixed size, and use  `object-fit: cover`  to ensure it doesn't get squashed!

### Grouped loading

- In the New Grid Times example above, we experience a lot of layout shifts because we have multiple independent sections that each have their own separate data requirements.

- We can improve the experience by "grouping" things together. For example, maybe we can wait until  _all_  stories in the main grid have finished loading before showing  _any_  of them:

```js
function  App()  {
  const  [mainStory, setMainStory]  =  React.useState(null);
  const  [secondaryStories, setSecondaryStories]  =
  React.useState(null);
  const  [opinionStories, setOpinionStories]  =  React.useState(null);
  const areAllStoriesLoaded =
  !!mainStory &&
  !!secondaryStories &&
  !!opinionStories;
  
  if  (!areAllStoriesLoaded)  {
  return  <Spinner  />
  }
  return  (
  /* Regular app here */
  );
}
```
- This is a tradeoff; we reduce the number of layout shifts, but it also means that the user won't get to see any stories until they've  _all_  loaded; on a slow connection, this can make a big difference!