# Transforms

- As the name implies, `transform` allows us to change a specified element in some way. It comes with a grab-bag of different transform functions that allow us to move and contort our elements in many different ways.

## Transform functions

### Translation

- Translation allows us to move an item around

- We can use `translate` to shift an item along in either axis: `x` moves side to side, `y` moves up and down. Positive values move down and to the right. Negative values move up and to the left.

- When we apply a transform to the middle child, the Flexbox algorithm doesn't notice, and keeps the other children in the same place

- When we want to move an element along a single axis, we can use  `translateX`  and  `translateY`

- When we use a percentage value in `translate`, that percentage refers to _the element's own size_, instead of the available space in the parent container.

```css
transform: translateX(calc(14% + 14px));
```
- This allows us to add a "buffer", so that we can translate something by its own size _plus_ a few extra pixels.

### Scale

- `scale`  allows us to grow or shrink an element

- Scale uses a unitless value that represents a  _multiple_, similar to  `line-height`.  `scale(2)`  means that the element should be 2x as big as it would normally be.

- We can also pass multiple values, to scale the  `x`  and  `y`  axis independently

- The text scales up and down with the element. We aren't just transforming the size and shape of the box, we're transforming the  _entire element_  and all of its descendants.

- if we _really_ don't want our text to squash, we can apply an _inverse transform_ to the child.

### Rotate

-  `rotate`  will rotate our elements

- We typically use the `deg` unit for rotation, short for degrees. But there's another handy unit we can use, one which might be easier to reason about

- The `turn` unit represents how many turns the element should make. 1 turn is equal to 360 degrees.

### Skew

- As with `translate`, we can skew along either axis

## Transform origin

- Every element has an  _origin_, the anchor that the transform functions execute from.

- The transform origin acts as a pivot point!

## Combining multiple operations

- We can string together multiple transform functions by space-separating them:

- **The order is important:** the transform functions will be applied sequentially.

## Inline elements

- One common gotcha with transforms is that they don't work with inline elements in Flow layout.

- Remember, inline elements go with the flow. Their goal is to wrap around some content with as little disruption as possible.

- The easiest fix is to switch it to use `display: inline-block`, or to use a different layout mode (eg. Flexbox or Grid).