# CSS Transitions

- The most fundamental tool in our toolbox when it comes to animations is the `transition` CSS property.

- transition` allows us to smooth out the changes that occur in our application. Instead of an element teleporting from one spot to another, it glides between the two.

- In order for us to use `transition`, we need some CSS that changes.

- We can instruct the browser to _interpolate_ from one state to another with `transition`:

```html
<style>
  .btn {
    transition: transform 250ms;
  }

  .btn:hover {
    transform: translateY(-10px);
  }
</style>
```

- As we'll discover, the `transition` property is highly configurable, but only two values are required:

  1.  The name of the property we wish to animate
  2.  The duration of the animation

- If you plan on animating multiple properties, you can pass it a comma-separated list:

```css
.btn {
  transition: transform 250ms, opacity 400ms;
}

.btn:hover {
  transform: scale(1.2);
  opacity: 0;
}
```

**Selecting all properties(warning)**

- `transition-property` takes a special value: `all`. When `all` is specified, any CSS property that changes will be transitioned.

- It can be tempting to use this value, as it saves us a good chunk of typing if we're animating multiple properties, but **I recommend not using it.**

- At some point in the future, you (or someone on your team) will change this CSS. You might add a new declaration that you _don't_ want to transition. It's better to be specific, and avoid any unintended animations.

- Animation is like salt: too much of it spoils the dish.

## Timing functions

- When we talk about “motion” on the web, we're really talking about _simulated_ motion. The pixels themselves aren't moving across the display!

- What we're really doing is more like a flipbook. Each frame draws the element at a slightly different position. If we do this fast enough, it appears like fluid motion, but it's an optical illusion.

- There are several timing functions available to us in CSS. We can specify which one we want to use with the `transition-timing-function` property:

```css
.btn {
  transition: transform 250ms;
  transition-timing-function: linear;
}
```

Or, we can pass it directly to the `transition` shorthand property:

```css
.btn {
  transition: transform 250ms linear;
}
```

- `linear` is rarely the best choice — after all, pretty much nothing in the real world moves this way

* Good animations mimic the natural world, so we should pick something more organic!

Let's run through our options.

### ease-out

- `ease-out` comes charging in like a wild bull, but it runs out of energy. By the end, it's pootering along like a sleepy turtle.

- **When would you use `ease-out`?** It's most commonly used when something is entering from off-screen (eg. a modal appearing). It produces the effect that something came hustling in from far away, and settles in front of the user.

### ease-in

- `ease-in` is the opposite of `ease-out`. It starts slow and speeds up

- Note that `ease-in` is pretty much exclusively useful for animations that end with the element offscreen or invisible; otherwise, the sudden stop can be jarring.

- It can be worthwhile to combine `ease-in` and `ease-out` when something enters and exits the viewport, like a modal.

### ease-in-out

- Next up, `ease-in-out`. It's the combination of the previous two timing functions

- I find this curve most useful for anything that happens in a loop (eg. an element fading in and out, over and over).

### ease

- `ease` is very similar to `ease-in-out`, with one key difference: it isn't symmetrical. It features a brief ramp-up, and _lots_ of deceleration

- **`ease` is the default value** — if you don't specify a timing function, `ease` gets used. This tends to be a good thing: `ease` is a great option in most cases. Unless you're specifically going for a different effect, `ease` makes a lot of sense.

**Time is constant(info)**

- An important note about all of these demos: _time is constant_. Timing functions describe how a value should get from 0 to 1 over a fixed time interval, **not** how quickly the animation should complete. Some timing functions may feel faster or slower, but in these examples, they all take exactly 1 second to complete.

### Custom curves

- If the provided built-in options don't suit your needs, you can define your own custom easing curve, using the cubic bézier timing function!

```css
.btn {
  transition: transform 250ms cubic-bezier(0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4);
}
```

- All of the values we've seen so far are really just presets for this `cubic-bezier` function. The `linear` value can also be represented as `cubic-bezier(0, 0, 1, 1)`.

## Delays

- `transition-delay` allows us to keep things status-quo for a brief interval.

- Have you ever tried to mouse over a nested navigation menu, only to have it close before you get there?

- This problem can be solved in a rather elegant way without needing to reach for JS. We can use `transition-delay`!

- Personally, I prefer not to use the shorthand for `transition-delay`.

## Doom flicker

- To solve this problem, we **separate the trigger from the effect.** We listen for hovers on the parent `<button>`, but apply the transformation to a child element. This ensures that the hover target won't move out from under the cursor.

- This works because **hover states bubble up**, just like `mouseEnter` events in JavaScript. When we hover over `.btn-contents`, we're also hovering over all of its ancestors (`.btn`, `body`, etc).
