# Animation performance

- The tolerances are also _really tight_. In order for our brain to perceive motion as fluid and believable, it needs to run at 60 frames per second: this leaves us with only ~16 milliseconds to update each frame!

- If our animation is too computationally expensive, it'll appear janky and choppy. The device just can't keep up, and the framerate drops.

## The pixel pipeline

If we want to update the colors of the pixels on our screen, there's a pipeline of possible steps:

1.  **Recalculating style** — first, we need to figure out which CSS declarations apply to which elements.
2.  **Layout** — next, we need to figure out where each element sits on the page.
3.  **Paint** — once we know where everything is, we can start painting them. This is the process of figuring out which color every pixel should be (“rasterization”), and filling it in.
4.  **Compositing** — Finally, we can transform previously-painted elements.

- Different CSS properties will trigger different steps in the pixel pipeline. If we animate an element's `height`, we'll need to recalculate the layout, since an item shrinking might mean that its siblings scoot up to fill the space.

- For this reason, it's best to try and avoid animating any properties that affect layout: this is things like `width`, `height`, `padding`, `margin`.

- Properties like `background-color` will never affect layout, because there aren't any colors that change an element's position on the page. So it'll be faster than animating a property that does affect layout.

- The `transform` property, however, is special: it can animate a property _without even triggering a paint step!_ Like with scrolling, it can reuse the work done on previous steps.

- There are only two properties that can be animated with compositing alone: `transform` and `opacity`. In Chrome, `filter` can also be composited, and they're [working on supporting more properties](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/hardware-accelerated-animations/), like `clip-path` and `background-color`.

- Does that mean that you can only ever animate `transform` and `opacity`? Personally, I think we can be a little bit more flexible than that. Not all repaints / layout-recalculations are created equal! For example, tweaking the height of an absolutely-positioned element tends to be quicker, since there's no chance that it will cause siblings to be shifted.

- The best thing you can do is to test your animations on a very low-end device, like the low-end smartphones discussed [in Module 5](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/css-for-js/05-responsive-css/03-mobile-testing). If you're satisfied with the performance on a low-end device, ship it!

## Hardware Acceleration

- Depending on your browser and OS, you may occasionally notice a curious flicker on certain animations

- We can fix this problem by adding the following CSS property:

```css
.btn {
  will-change: transform;
}
```

- `will-change` is a property that allows us to hint to the browser that we're going to animate the selected element, and that it should optimize for this case.

- In practice, what this means is that the browser will let the GPU handle this element _all the time_. No more handing-off between CPU and GPU, no more telltale “snapping into place”.

- `will-change` lets us be intentional about which elements should be hardware-accelerated. Browsers have their own inscrutable logic around this stuff, and I'd rather not leave it up to chance.

- Just don't broadly apply `will-change` to elements that won't move. Be intentional about where you use it.
