# Accessibility

- Animations are an important part of the user experience, but not everyone experiences them the same way. For some folks, certain kinds of motion can trigger physical symptoms like nausea, dizziness, and malaise.

- Modern operating systems offer a remedy for this: users can opt out of animations. The setting is meant primarily for the OS, but websites and web applications can now access that value and use it in our CSS and JS.

- It's our job to check and respect that value.

### Accessing in CSS

- To tell if they've requested reduced motion, we can use a media query:

```css
.fancy-box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  transform: scale(1);
  transition: transform 300ms;
}

.fancy-box:hover {
  transform: scale(1.2);
}

@media (prefers-reduced-motion: reduce) {
  .fancy-box {
    transition: none;
  }
}
```

- If they've ticked the "reduce animations" checkbox, `prefers-reduced-motion` will be set to `reduce`. The CSS rules in that media query will apply, disabling the transition on our `.fancy-box` selector.

- In this case, we're starting from a place of animations being enabled, and explicitly disabling them based on a media query. A better mental model is to think in terms of the reverse: start **without animations**, and enable them if the user wishes:

```css
.fancy-box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  transform: scale(1);
  /* No more `transition` here! */
}

.fancy-box:hover {
  transform: scale(1.2);
}

@media (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference) {
  .fancy-box {
    transition: transform 300ms;
  }
}
```

- To be clear, `no-preference` is the default value. If a user has never fiddled with their accessibility settings, `prefers-reduced-motion` will be set to `no-preference`.

- By switching it up so that the `transition` is set from within a media query, we ensure that the animation is disabled _by default_ for users on browsers/devices that don't support this property. Browsers ignore CSS inside unrecognized media queries, so it's as if this `transition` doesn't exist for them.

- ### Accessing in JavaScript

- The media query shown above works great for animations that take place entirely from within CSS (eg. transitions, keyframe animations). However, there are many types of animations that cannot be done entirely through CSS:

-   Animations using spring physics.
    
-   Animations involving the cursor coordinates, scroll position, or other “environment” factors.
    
    
-   HTML5 Canvas animations.
    
-   Certain kinds of SVG animations.
    

- Fortunately, we can access the value of the media query from within JS. Here's a snippet:

```css
function  getPrefersReducedMotion()  {
  const mediaQueryList =  window.matchMedia(
  '(prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)'

  );
  const prefersReducedMotion =  !mediaQueryList.matches;
  return prefersReducedMotion;
}
```
- This function will return  `true`  if the user prefers reduced motion (has ticked the "reduce motion" checkbox),  _or_  they're using an older browser and we don't know what their true preference is. If it returns  `false`, it means the user has no preference, and we should enable our animations.

- We can also use event listeners to update this value when it changes:

```css
const mediaQueryList =  window.matchMedia(
  '(prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)'
);

const  listener  =  (event)  =>  {
  const getPrefersReducedMotion =  getPrefersReducedMotion();
};
mediaQueryList.addListener(listener);

// Later:
mediaQueryList.removeListener(listener);
```
- This listener will fire when the user toggles the "Reduce motion" checkbox in their operating system.

- We want to listen for this event, because we want to immediately terminate animations if the user toggles the box, even if the page has already loaded / the animation is in progress.

**In-app settings?(info)**

- Some applications, like Duolingo and Discord, have a specific user setting to disable animation.

- While this might feel redundant in a world with widely-supported "prefers reduced motion", there is a good argument for keeping a user setting.

- This allows us to create 3 different groups:

	1.  The standard experience: full animations.
	    
	2.  Folks who have ticked "reduce motion" in the OS: the most problematic animations are removed, or switched to lighter alternatives.
	    
	3.  Folks who disable animations in the in-app settings: no animations at all.
	    

- This is a significant maintenance overhead, and probably not worth it for most applications. But if you want to build a world-class user experience, this is the sort of small detail that can go a long way.