# Ecosystem World Tour

## The Web Animations API

- The Web Animations API is a low-level animation API built into the browser. We can build animation sequences and control them from within JavaScript.

- It mirrors the `@keyframes` API. Here's a quick example:

```css
const elem =  document.querySelector('.box');

const frames =  [
  {  opacity:  0,  transform:  'translateY(100%)'  },
  {  opacity:  1,  transform:  'translateY(0%)'  },
];

elem.animate(
 frames,
  {
  duration:  1000,
  iterations:  Infinity,
  }
);
```

- This is equivalent to the following CSS animation:

```css
@keyframes pop-in {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: translateY(100%);
  }

  to {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: translateY(0%);
  }
}

.box {
  animation: pop-in 1000ms infinite;
}
```

- For the most part, the Web Animations API can be thought of as "CSS keyframe animations in JavaScript". Under the hood, the Web Animations API even uses the same low-level implementation as keyframe animations, so their performance characteristics are identical.

- But there _are_ some things that are different between the two.

- The most significant, IMO, is that the Web Animations API will let us apply a single timing function for _the whole_ animation. Each step isn't given its own easing, by default.

## Framer Motion

- Framer Motion is a production-ready library for React. It does a lot of things, but the most impressive and noteworthy thing is that it can animate CSS properties that aren't normally able to be animated.

- In "real life", when we change Flexbox properties, that transition can't be animated. `transition: justify-content 300ms` has no effect. But I've done it here, using Framer Motion.

- Because it uses transforms, the animations are highly performant. Even if we _could_ animate Flexbox properties, they wouldn't be this smooth.

- It's not limited to Flexbox, either. Framer Motion can animate just about _any_ CSS change. If your element goes from being a child in a Grid container to setting `position: absolute; top: 50px`, Framer Motion can animate that transition.

- It can even animate transitions **between components**.

## React Spring

- React Spring allows us to model our animations based on spring physics, rather than Bézier curves.

- Spring physics are an entirely different model for running animations. When we work with spring physics, we don't pick a duration for our animations; instead, we configure the characteristics of a spring.

- Why would we want to do this? Because the resulting motion is _incredible._ It feels fluid and realistic. Spring physics are modeled on the natural world, and it convinces our brain in a way that Bèzier curves can't fully imitate.

- React Spring is the most common way to animate using spring physics in React. They've done _a ton_ of work to make an incredibly powerful, highly-configurable library. You can do lots of wild stuff with React Spring, and it's been my go-to library for years.

CSS animations run off the main thread, which means they have an inherent performance advantage over these fancy JS animation libraries. For small, straightforward animations, nothing works better than CSS transitions and animations!

I reach for modern tools in two cases:

- The animation is too complex or sophisticated to be done with CSS (eg. 'crossfading' between DOM elements).
- The animation is very prominent, and I want to squeeze a bit of extra lush-ness out of it with spring physics.
