# Keyframe Animations

- CSS keyframe animations are declared using the  `@keyframes`  at-rule. We can specify a transition from one set of CSS declarations to another:
```css
@keyframes slide-in  {
  from  {
   transform:  translateX(-100%);
  }

  to  {
   transform:  translateX(0%);
  }
}
```
- Each  `@keyframes`  statement needs a name! In this case, we've chosen to name it  `slide-in`. You can think of this like a global variable.

- Keyframe animations are meant to be general and reusable. We can apply them to specific selectors with the `animation` property:

```html
<style>
  @keyframes slide-in {
    from {
      transform: translateX(-100%);
    }
    to {
      transform: translateX(0%);
    }
  }

  .box {
    animation: slide-in 1000ms;
  }
</style>
```

- As with the  `transition`  property,  `animation`  requires a duration. Here we've said that the animation should last 1 second (1000ms).

- The browser will  _interpolate_  the declarations within our  `from`  and  `to`  blocks, over the duration specified. This happens immediately, as soon as the property is set.

- We can animate multiple properties in the same animation declaration.

## Timing functions

- As with  `transition`, keyframe animations default to an  `ease`  timing curve, but can be overridden.

- We can do this with the  `animation-timing-function`  property

```html
<style>
  .box {
    animation: drop-in 1000ms;
    animation-timing-function: linear;
  }
</style>
```

## Looped animations

- By default, keyframe animations will only run once, but we can control this with the  `animation-iteration-count`  property

```html
<style>
  .box {
    animation: slide-in 1000ms;
    animation-iteration-count: 1;
  }
</style>
```

- It's somewhat rare to specify an integer like this, but there is one special value that comes in handy: `infinite`.

- Note that for spinners, we generally want to use a `linear` timing function so that the motion is constant (though this is somewhat subjective—try changing it and see what you think!).

## Multi-step animations

- In addition to the  `from`  and  `to`  keywords, we can also use percentages. This allows us to add more than 2 steps
```html
<style>
  @keyframes fancy-spin {
    0% {
      transform: rotate(0turn) scale(1);
    }
    25% {
      transform: rotate(1turn) scale(1);
    }
    50% {
      transform: rotate(1turn) scale(1.5);
    }
    75% {
      transform: rotate(0turn) scale(1.5);
    }
    100% {
      transform: rotate(0turn) scale(1);
    }
  }
  
  .spinner {
    animation: fancy-spin 2000ms;
    animation-iteration-count: infinite;
  }
</style>
```

- The percentages refer to the progress through the animation.  `from`  is really just  syntactic sugar?  for  `0%`.  `to`  is sugar for  `100%`.

- Importantly,  _the timing function applies to each step_. We don't get a single ease for the entire animation

## Alternating animations

- We can use the `animation-direction` property:

```html
<style>
  @keyframes grow-and-shrink {
    0% {
      transform: scale(1);
    }
    100% {
      transform: scale(1.5);
    }
  }

  .box {
    animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms;
    animation-timing-function: ease-in-out;
    animation-iteration-count: infinite;
    animation-direction: alternate;
  }
</style>
```

- `animation-direction`  controls the order of the keyframes. The default value is  `normal`, going from 0% to 100% over the course of the specified duration.

- We can also set it to  `reverse`. This will play the animation backwards, going from 100% to 0%.

- The interesting part, though, is that we can set it to  `alternate`, which ping-pongs between  `normal`  and  `reverse`  on subsequent iterations.

## Shorthand values

- Fortunately, as with  `transition`, we can use the  `animation`  shorthand to combine all of these properties.

- The above animation can be rewritten:

```css
.box  {
  /*
 From this:
 animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms;
 animation-timing-function: ease-in-out;
 animation-iteration-count: infinite;
 animation-direction: alternate;
 ...to this:
 */
  animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms ease-in-out infinite alternate;
}
```

- Here's a piece of good news, as well:  **the order doesn't matter.**  For the most part, you can toss these properties in any order you want.

- This works because different properties accept different values;  `alternate`, for example, isn't a valid timing-function or iteration-count, so the browser can deduce that you mean to assign it to  `animation-direction`.

```css
.box  {
  /* This works: */
  animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms ease-in-out infinite alternate;

  /* This also works! */
  animation: grow-and-shrink alternate infinite 2000ms ease-in-out;
}
```
- There is an exception:  `animation-delay`, a property we'll talk more about shortly, needs to come after the duration, since both properties take the same value type (milliseconds/seconds).

- For that reason, I prefer to exclude delay from the shorthand

```css
.box  {
  animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms ease-in-out infinite alternate;
  animation-delay:  500ms;
}
```