# Fill Modes

- A “cascade origin” is a source of selectors. For example, browsers come with a bunch of built-in styles—that's why anchor tags are blue and underlined by default. These styles are part of the  _User-Agent Origin_.

- **The specificity rules only apply when comparing selectors in the same origin.**  The styles we write normally are part of the “Author Origin”, and Author Origin styles win out over ones written in the User-Agent Origin.

- Here's why this is relevant: keyframe animations are their own special origin, and its styles are applied later.

- Think of it in terms of a fighting video game. In Round One, all of the default browser styles are applied, following standard specificity rules. In Round Two, the selectors we've provided battle it out. In Round Three,  `@keyframes`  declarations are applied. It doesn't matter how specific a selector is if it's applied in Round Two; our  `@keyframes`  declaration will overwrite it.

## Filling forwards

- Instead of relying on default declarations, let's consider another approach, using  `animation-fill-mode`:

```html
<style>
  @keyframes fade-out {
    from {
      opacity: 1;
    }
    to {
      opacity: 0;
    }
  }
  
  .box {
    animation: fade-out 1000ms;
    animation-fill-mode: forwards;
  }
</style>
```

- `animation-fill-mode` lets us persist the final value from the animation, _forwards in time_.

- `animation-fill-mode` has another value, `backwards`, which allows us to apply the animation's initial state **backwards in time.**

- What if we want to persist the animation forwards _and_ backwards? We can use a third value, `both`, which persists in both directions

- . I apply  `animation-fill-mode: both`  as a matter of habit to my keyframe animations. I wish it was the default value.

- Like all of the animation properties we're discussing, it can be tossed into the  `animation`  shorthand:

```css
.box {
  animation: slide-in 1000ms ease-out both;
  animation-delay:  500ms;
}
```