# Dynamic Updates

- There's no rule that says that animations need to happen immediately!

- It's more accurate to say that the animation will start as soon as a valid animation is wired up, using the  `animation`  property. Using JavaScript, we can add that property dynamically, at any point in time

## Playing and pausing

- You may have noticed in the example above: disabling the animation can lead to some pretty jarring transitions

- When we remove the  `animation`  property, all of the CSS in the  `from`  and  `to`  blocks evaporates immediately. The element will revert back to its default CSS.

- This is known as an “interruption”.  `@keyframes`  animations don't handle interruptions well.

- There is a tool that can help in certain situations, though:  **play states.**

- (Quick reminder: styles are "camelCased" when setting them in JavaScript.  `animationPlayState`  sets the CSS property  `animation-play-state`.)

## Animations vs. transitions

- You might be wondering: when should I use  `@keyframes`, and when should I use  `transition`?

- There are some things that only  `@keyframes`  can do:

	-   Looped animations
	    
	-   Multi-step animations
	    
	-   pauseable animations
	    

- We  _can_  do some of this stuff from JS, if we really wanted to. But usually, it's simpler to use  `@keyframes`.

- If an animation needs to run immediately when the page loads or the component mounts, it's easiest to use  `@keyframes`.

- On the other hand, I reach for  `transition`  when my CSS will change as a result of some application state or user action. I use it when I want to smooth out an otherwise harsh transition between values.

- Both tools serve slightly different purposes, and it takes some practice to build an intuition for which to use when.

## With styled-components

- In vanilla CSS,  `@keyframes`  definitions are global. If we create a keyframe animation called  `fadeIn`, any component anywhere in our application can use this animation. If another developer on our team also decides to name their animation  `fadeIn`, one of the animations will overwrite the other.

- In styled-components, each animation is given a unique, random name, just like the component classes! Under the hood, this  `float`  animation might actually be named  `exvRVV`  or  `BozTiK`.

- Beyond this one difference, keyframe animations created in styled-components function exactly like  `@keyframes`  statements written in vanilla CSS.