# Aspect Ratio

- As we saw earlier, images have an  _intrinsic_  aspect ratio.

- What if we  _don't know_  the specific pixel size? Maybe our images use a percentage-based width. Or, the image will grow and shrink inside a Flex container.

- How can we scale our images proportionally, at a prescribed aspect ratio?

- We can do that with the help of a brand-new property, `aspect-ratio`:

```html
<style>
  img {
    width: 30%;
    aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
    object-fit: cover;
  }
</style>
```

- The  `aspect-ratio`  property takes two slash-separated numbers, like  `4 / 3`  or  `7 / 11`. This is a ratio of width to height; an aspect ratio of  `2 / 1`  means that the image will be twice as wide as it is tall.

- **This new feature is huge.**  It allows us to auto-calculate the height of an element based on its dynamic width, whether that's a percentage or a flex-grow ratio.

- The  `aspect-ratio`  property isn't specific to images, either; it works on  _any element_, including notoriously-tricky ones like  `<video>`  tags or iframes.

- **Percentages in padding always refer to width.** When we set `padding-bottom: 50%`, for example, we're saying that the element's bottom padding should be half of its width. Not its height.

## Progressive enhancement

- In most cases, the  `aspect-ratio`  property is used to add a bit of visual polish, for presentational purposes. It isn't usually required for functionality.

- Given that  _most_  browsers support it, it's reasonable to ask: can we start using it, and provide a different-but-still-good alternative experience, for those using unsupported browsers?

```html
<style>
  img {
    width: 100%;
    height: 200px;
    object-fit: cover;
  }

  @supports (aspect-ratio: 1 / 1) {
    img {
      height: revert;
      aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
    }
  }
</style>
```

- `@supports` is known as a _feature query_. It works just like a media query, but instead of targeting specific window sizes, it targets support for specific CSS declarations.