# Background Images

- A background image will be rendered at its native size, and then tiled across the element.

- There's a problem with this, though. As we've discussed, most monitors are "high DPI". If we render an image at its natural size, it'll look blurry and fuzzy, since a single software pixel is being stretched across multiple hardware pixels.

- To keep things crisp, we'll need to provide different images for different devices, scaling up based on the pixel ratio. When it comes to background images, we can do this with a media query,  `min-resolution`:

```html
<style>
  body {
    background-image:
      url('https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/cfj-mats/geometric-pattern.png');
    background-size: 450px;
  }
  
  @media
    (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio: 2),
    (min-resolution: 2dppx)
  {
    body {
      background-image:
        url('https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/cfj-mats/geometric-pattern@2x.png');
    }
  }
  </style>
```

- `min-resolution`  is supported across all major browsers except Safari. We can support Safari with an alternative syntax,  `-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio`.

- Notice that we also need to specify a  `background-size`  in pixels; otherwise, our high-DPI images will render in their native size, producing much larger images without any additional clarity. The  `background-size`  should match the width of the standard 1x image.

 ## Fit and positioning

- The  `background-size`  property also accepts certain keyword values, just like  `object-fit`.

## Background repeat

- By default, the background image will be tiled side-by-side, top-to-bottom. In most cases, this is fine, but it does mean that the pattern will be truncated at the bottom and on the right.

- The  `background-repeat`  property allows us to tweak this algorithm. There are two additional options that can be used:
- `round`  will scale the image up or down, to avoid having the image cut off at the bottom or the right. It preserves the aspect ratio.

- `space`  won't tweak the size of the image. Instead, it'll leave gaps between the images.

## Generative backgrounds

- In addition to accepting the URL to an image file, the  `background-image`  property also accepts gradients.