
# Padding

- A helpful way to think about padding is that it's "inner space".

- Padding can be set for all directions at once, or it can be specified for individual directions:
	```css
	.even-padding  {
	  padding:  20px;
	}

	.asymmetric-padding  {
	  padding-top:  20px;
	  padding-bottom:  40px;
	  padding-left:  60px;
	  padding-right:  80px;
	}

	/* The same thing, but using ✨ logical properties ✨ */
	.asymmetric-logical-padding  {
	  padding-block-start:  20px;
	  padding-block-end:  40px;
	  padding-inline-start:  60px;
	  padding-inline-end:  80px;
	}
	```

## Units

When applying padding, we can pick from a pretty wide range of units. The most common ones are:

 1. `px`
 2. `em`
 3.  `rem`

 - Many developers believe that pixels are bad for accessibility. This is true when it comes to _font size_, but I actually think pixels are the best unit to use for padding (and other box model properties like margin/border).

## Shorthand properties

The  `padding`  property has a couple tricks up its sleeve. It can be used to set asymmetric padding, in a few different ways.
```css
.two-way-padding  {
  padding:  15px  30px;
}

.asymmetric-padding  {
  padding:  10px  20px  30px  40px;
}
```
- If two values are passed, the first value is used for both vertical directions (top/bottom), and the second value is used for horizontal directions (left/right).

- If all 4 values are passed, it applies them in a specific order: top, right, bottom, left.

- When fewer than 4 values are passed, it "fills in the gaps". If you pass it two values, it mirrors the top to the bottom, and the right to the left. With only 3 values, we set top/right/bottom explicitly, and mirror the right value to the left.

**Beyond padding**

This pattern is shared amongst other CSS properties that have shorthand values. For example:

-   margin (`margin: 10px 20px 30px 40px`)
    
-   border-style (`border-style: dotted solid dashed solid`)
    
A similar pattern is used for properties that affect corners, like  `border-radius`; the pattern is  `top-left`,  `top-right`,  `bottom-right`,  `bottom-left`. It follows a clockwise pattern starting from the top-left.

## Overwriting values
```css
.box {
  padding:  48px;
  padding-bottom:  0;
}
```
- "Long-form" properties can  _overwrite_  the relevant value in shorthand properties. The effect is the same, but it's a bit more semantic; instead of a random string of numbers, we're declaring that we want 48px of padding, hold the bottom.

- **Please note:**  the order matters! The overwrite has to come  _after_  the shorthand, otherwise it won't have any effect.