# Border

Border is a bit of an odd duck in the trinity of padding/border/margin—unlike the other two, it has a visual/cosmetic component.

There are three styles specific to border:

-   Border width (eg.  `3px`,  `1em`)
    
-   Border style (eg.  `solid`,  `dotted`)
    
-   Border color (eg.  `hotpink`,  `black`)

They can be combined into a shorthand:
    
```css
.box  {
  border:  3px solid hotpink;
}
```

The only required field is  `border-style`. Without it, no border will be shown!

```css
.not-good  {
  /* 🙅‍♀️ Won't work – needs a style! */
  border:  2px  pink;
}

.good  {
  /* 🙆‍♀️ Will produce a black, 3px-thick border */
  border: solid;
}
```

- As with padding, you can overwrite broad properties with specific ones.

- **Here's a fun fact:** If we _don't_ specify a border color, it'll default to using the element's text color!

- If you want to specify this behaviour explicitly, it can be done with the special  `currentColor`  keyword.

- `currentColor`  is always a reference to the element's derived text color (whether set explicitly or inherited), and it can be used anywhere a color might be used:
```css
.box {
  color: hotpink;
  border: 1px solid currentColor;
  box-shadow: 2px  2px  2px currentColor;
}
```

## Border radius

- `border-radius` accepts discrete values for each direction. It's focused on specific _corners_, not specific sides.

```css
   border-radius: 25px;
   
   border-radius: 10px 10px 40px 40px;

   border-top-left-radius: 8px;
   border-top-right-radius: 16px;
   border-bottom-right-radius: 32px;
   border-bottom-left-radius: 64px;
```

- You can also use percentages; 50% will turn your shape into a circle or oval, since each corner's radius is 50% of the total width/height
```css
 border-radius: 50%;
```

## Border vs. Outline

- A common stumbling block for devs is the distinction between  `outline`  and  `border`. In some respects, they're quite similar! They both add a visual edge to a given element.

- The core difference is that  _outline doesn't affect layout_. Outline is kinda more like box-shadow; it's a cosmetic effect draped over an element, without nudging it around, or changing its size.

- Outlines share many of the same properties:

	-   `border-width`  becomes  `outline-width`
    
	-   `border-color`  becomes  `outline-color`
    
	-   `border-style`  becomes  `outline-style`
    
- Outlines are stacked outside border, and can sometimes be used as a "second border", for effect

-    Outlines will follow the curve set with  `border-radius`  in all modern browsers. This is a relatively recent change, which landed in browsers between 2021 and 2023.
    
-   **Outlines have a special  `outline-offset`  property**. It allows you to add a bit of a gap between the element and its outline.

- **One more thing:** Outlines are sometimes used as focus indicators, for folks who use the keyboard (or other non-pointer devices) to navigate.