# Margin

- Margin increases the space _around_ an element, giving it some breathing room

- Margin can do wacky things, like pull an element outside a parent, or center itself within its container.

## Syntax
```css
The syntax for margin looks an awful lot like padding:
.spaced-box  {
  margin:  20px;
}

.asymmetrically-spaced-box  {
  margin:  20px  10px;
}

.individually-specified-box  {
  margin-top:  10px;
  margin-left:  20px;
  margin-right:  30px;
  margin-bottom:  40px;
}

.logical-box  {
  margin-block-start:  20px;
  margin-block-end:  40px;
  margin-inline-start:  60px;
  margin-inline-end:  80px;
}
```

## Negative margin

- With padding and border, only positive numbers (including 0) are supported. With margin, however, we can drop into the negatives.

- A negative margin can pull an element outside its parent

- Negative margins can also pull an element's sibling closer

- It's easy to fall into the trap of thinking that margin is exclusively about changing the selected element's position. Really, though, it's about changing  _the gap between elements_. Negative margin shrinks the gap below an element, causing the next element to scoot up closer.

- Finally, negative margin can affect the position of  _all siblings_.

- When we use margin to tweak an element's position, we might also be tweaking every subsequent element as well. This is different from other methods of shifting an element's position, like using `transform: translate`

## Auto margins

- Margins have one other trick up their sleeve: they can be used to center a child in a container.
```css
.content {
    width: 50%;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto;
  }
```

- The `auto` value seeks to fill the _maximum available space_. It works the same way for the `width` property

- When we set both `margin-left` and `margin-right` to `auto`, we're telling them each to take up as much space as possible.

**Two caveats:**

-   **This only works for horizontal margin.**  Setting top/bottom margin to  `auto`  is equivalent to setting it to  `0px`
    
   
-   **This only works on elements with an explicit width**. Block elements will naturally grow to fill the available horizontal space, so we need to give our element a  `width`  in order to center it.

The nice thing about the auto-margin trick is that it can be selectively applied to a single child in a container.