# Responsive Typography

- Here's a surprisingly complicated question: should text get bigger or smaller when viewed on a mobile device (compared to a desktop monitor)?

- The answer to this question will depend on the type of text we're talking about.

## Body text

- “Body text” is the text in our paragraphs and lists. It's the baseline text that fills most of our pages.

- When it comes to body text, the answer to the question above is surprisingly simple:  **it should stay the same size across all devices.**

- Why? Because device manufacturers have already done the hard work of making sure that font sizes are consistent!
- Font sizes are more-or-less perceptually uniform across devices.

- We generally want our body text to be  [at least 16px](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2011/10/16-pixels-body-copy-anything-less-costly-mistake/). Anything less and users will need to hold the phone uncomfortably close to their face, or do a bunch of pinch-and-zooming.

- **What about on very large displays?** As counter-intuitive as it is, most web applications use the same font size regardless of display size. Facebook, Twitter, and Google generally stick around 16px no matter how big the screen gets! That said, it's somewhat common for content-heavy sites like blogs to use larger font sizes, up to 21px, for body text.

- So, when we say that body text should be at least 16px, what we're really saying is that it should be at least 1rem. The `rem` unit is relative to the root font size, which defaults to 16px in all browsers.

## Smaller text

- In addition to the "body" text found in paragraphs and lists, we also have smaller bits of text that annotate or label things.

- Is this a problem? I think it depends on the circumstances. If the text is relatively unimportant (eg. copyright notices in the footer), I don't mind if folks have to pinch-to-zoom to read it. But if the content is important, we should bump it up on mobile so that it's easier to read:

```css
@media  (max-width:  550px)  {
  figcaption  {
  font-size:  1rem;
  }
}
```
### Form fields

- Form input fields like  `<input>`  and  `<select>`  generally have a pretty small default font size. This makes them hard to read on mobile devices.

- To compensate, iOS Safari will automatically zoom in to focused form fields with small text, to make them easier to read. While this does make them more legible, it makes everything else harder and more tedious.

- Fortunately, there is an easy fix:  **Safari only zooms in if the fields are smaller than 16px**.

- By default, iOS will zoom in so that the input text is  _the equivalent_  of 16px. We can skip this zoom by setting the text to 16px by default:
```css
input, select, textarea  {
  font-size:  1rem;
}
```

## Headings

- When it comes to headings, we need a slightly different approach.

- Mobile devices are very narrow, and they can't fit that many characters per line. Large headings feel awkward

- 2.5rem (40px) isn't an unreasonable font size for a large desktop heading, but it's totally unwieldy on mobile. It takes up most of the screen!

- One way to deal with this is to use media queries; we can decrease the font size on mobile devices:
```css
h1 {
  font-size:  2.5rem;
}

@media (max-width:  550px) {
  h1  {
  font-size:  1.75rem;
  }
}
```
- But there's another option: we can choose a fluid value so that the font scales smoothly with the viewport width.