# Fluid Typography

- The idea with fluid typography is that instead of creating discrete font sizes at specific breakpoints, our typography smoothly scales with the viewport.

- This is done with the `vw` unit

- Our new friend `clamp`, to set bounds on how big or small the font can grow:

```html
<style>
  h1 {
    font-size: clamp(1.5rem, 6vw, 3rem);
    margin-bottom: 0.5em;
  }
</style>
```
- `clamp` lets us set a hard boundary. In this case, our text is guaranteed to always be between 1.5rem and 3rem, no matter what size the viewport is.

**Safari quirk**

- Safari supports the  `vw`  unit, and it supports  `clamp`, but when they're used together, Safari behaves a little strangely.

- Specifically, it only calculates the value  _when the element first appears_. It won't recalculate the font size when the window is resized.

- This peculiar rendering behaviour can be fixed with the following declaration:
```css
h1 {
  font-size:  clamp(1.5rem,  6vw,  3rem);
  min-height:  0vh;
}
```
- When we use viewport units for our font sizes, that text is locked at that size. It won't be increased by zooming in or by bumping up the browser's default font size.

- We can solve this problem by “mixing in” a relative unit:

```html
<style>
  h1 {
    font-size: clamp(
      1.5rem,
      4vw + 1rem,
      3rem
    );
    margin-bottom: 0.5em;
    /*
      HACK: Add this declaration if you're
      using Safari to see the text scale
      when resizing:

      min-height: 0vh;
    */
  }
</style>
```
- The `rem` component of this equation should be at least 1rem, so that users can scale it effectively.

- By mixing a viewport unit with a relative unit, we give the user control over the font size once more, allowing them to crank it up (albeit at a slower rate).

- As a courtesy, the `clamp` function (along with `min` and `max`) will automatically resolve any `calc`-style equations within. This helps keep our code a bit cleaner, with no nested function calls required.

- we can use fluid calculator

## Use responsibly

- Fluid typography is useful when it comes to headings and other large text elements, but I don't recommend using this strategy on smaller text like body text.

- Our body text is already at the perfect size, without bumping it up or down. Viewport units tend to produce very-small text on mobile. And while users can pinch-zoom to read small text, it's not a pleasant experience.