# 3D Transforms

- The 3D engine in CSS will assume that we want to use **orthographic projection**. Everything will be the same size, no matter how far away it is. We can switch to a perspective projection using the `perspective` CSS property
  When we switch to _perspective projection_, things suddenly appear "3D". When an element moves away from the user, it gets smaller. When it rotates along the X or Y axis, we can tell which edge is closer to us, and which edge is further away.

- In order to switch to _perspective projection_, we also need to pass it a length value:

```css
perspective: 250px;
```

- The value we pass to `perspective` can be thought of as a measure of how close the user is to the screen.

- If the user is _right next_ to the screen, small changes in position will appear **huge**. Imagine spinning a card that's only a few inches from your face.

- If the user is further away, though, that same motion will appear smaller and more subtle.

- We can choose a `perspective` value based on how attention-grabbing we want our animation to be

## Applying perspective

There are two different ways to apply perspective. The first is with the `perspective` CSS property:

```html
<style>
  .container {
    perspective: 250px;
  }
  .box {
    transform: rotateX(75deg);
  }
</style>
```

- Note that the `perspective` property needs to be set **on the parent element**. It's kind of like `display: grid`; we set `perspective` to control how the _children_ will be presented.

- The cool thing about the `perspective` property is that it _groups the children into the same environment_. Our 3 cards above are each rendered a little differently, based on their position within the box.

- Essentially, the box's position within the perspective-parent will control what angle we see it at.

### The perspective function

- In addition to the `perspective` property, there is also a `perspective()` transform function:

```
.box  {
  transform:  perspective(250px)  rotateX(45deg);
}
```

- Unlike the `perspective` property, the `perspective()` function will give each transformed element its own little environment.

- I tend to prefer using the `perspective` property, since I generally want my siblings to share an environment, for a more realistic effect.
