# Width Algorithms

- When we use percentage-based widths, those percentages are  **based on the parent element's content space**. If the  `body`  tag makes 400px of space available, any child with 100% width will become 400px wide, regardless of any other circumstances.

- Block elements have a default  `width`  value of  `auto`, not  `100%`.  `width: auto`  works very similar to  `margin: auto`; it's a hungry value that will grow as much as it's able to, but no more. In the case above, our  `h1`  will grow to consume (100% - 32px), since there is 16px of margin on either side.

- It's a subtle but important distinction: by default, block elements have _dynamic sizing_. They're context-aware.

## Keyword values

Broadly speaking, there are two kinds of values we can specify for  `width`:

1.  Measurements (100%, 200px, 5rem)
    
2.  Keywords (auto, fit-content)

- Measurement-based values are either completely explicit (eg. 200px), or relative to the parent's available space (eg. 50%). Keywords, on the other hand, let us specify different sorts of behaviours depending on the context.

- We've already seen how  `auto`  will let our element greedily consume the available space while respecting any constraints.

### min-content

- When we set  `width: min-content`, we're specifying that we want our element to become as narrow as it can,  _based on the child contents_. This is a totally different perspective: we aren't sizing based on the space made available by the parent, we're sizing based on the element's children!

- This value is known as an  _intrinsic value_, while measurements and the  `auto`  keyword are  _extrinsic_. The distinction is based on whether we're focusing on the element itself, or the space made available by the element's parent.

- it chooses the smallest possible value for  `width`  that still contains each word. Whenever it encounters whitespace or a hyphenated word, it'll break it onto a new line.

- This value can be useful for certain kinds of effects.

### max-content

- This value is similar in principle, but it takes an opposite strategy: it  _never_  adds any line-breaks. The element's width will be the smallest value that contains the content, without breaking it up.

- An element with `width: max-content` pays no attention to the constraints set by the parent. It will size the element based purely on the length of its unbroken children.

- it produces a nice effect when the content is short enough to fit within the parent

- Unlike with `auto`, `max-content` doesn't fill the available space. If we want to add a background color _only_ around the letters, this would be a neat way to do it!

### fit-content

- like  `min-content`  and  `max-content`, the width is based on the size of the children. If that width can fit within the parent container, it behaves just like  `max-content`, not adding any line-breaks.

- If the content is too wide to fit in the parent, however, it adds line-breaks as-needed to ensure it never exceeds the available space. It behaves just like  `width: auto`.

## Min and max widths

We can add constraints to an element's size using  `min-width`  and  `max-width`.

```css
 .box {
    width: 50%;
    min-width: 170px;
    max-width: 300px;
    margin: 0 auto;
    border: solid hotpink;
  }
```
- The particularly exciting thing about `min-width` and `max-width` is that they let us _mix units_. We can specify constraints in pixels, but set a percentage `width`.