# Height Algorithms

- We've seen how widths are calculated in Flow layout, but how about height?

- In some ways, it works the same way. Setting an element to have a  `height`  of  `50%`  will force that item to take up half of the parent element's content area: no more, no less.

- In other ways, they're quite different. The default "width" behaviour of a block-level element is to fill all the available width

-  Default "height" behaviour is to be as  _small_  as possible while fitting all of the element's content; it's closer to  `width: min-content`  than  `width: auto`!

- Also, we tend to treat height as "more dynamic" than width. We might feel comfortable setting our main content wrapper to have a max width of 750px, but we wouldn't usually do this with height; We want our design to work whether the content is 200 words, or 20,000 words. And even for pages with the exact same content, we expect that our containers will grow taller on phone screens, and shorter on desktop monitors.

- We generally want to avoid setting fixed heights.

- The default behaviour of an element in terms of height is to be as _small_ as possible, to contain its children.

**Have you ever tried to use a percentage-based height, only to discover that it seems to have no effect?**

- Our  `section`  sits inside the  `<body>`  tag, and so when we set a percentage-based height or min-height, the percentage is based on that parent height.  `<body>`  doesn't  _have_  a specific height set, which means it uses the default behaviour: stay as short as possible, while still containing all the children.

- In other words, we have an impossible condition: we're telling the  `<section>`  to be a percentage of the  `<body>`, and the  `<body>`  wants to base its size off of the  `<section>`. They're both looking to each other for guidance.

**This is a really common source of confusion.**  It isn't fixed by Flexbox or Grid, either; those tools help us control the contents of a container, but that container still needs to get its height from somewhere!

Here's how to fix it:

-   Put  `height: 100%`  on every element before your main one (including  `html`  and  `body`)
    
-   Put  `min-height: 100%`  on that wrapper
    
-   Don't try and use percentage-based heights within that wrapper
    
When  `html`  is given  `height: 100%`, it takes up the height of the viewport. That serves as our base. The  `body`  tag's 100% is based on that base size.

When we get to our wrapper, we want to use  `min-height`. This way, the minimum size is equal to the viewport height, but it can overflow and take up more space if required by the content.

```css
 html, body {
    height: 100%;
  }
  .wrapper {
    min-height: 100%;
    border: solid;
  }
```

**App wrapper gotcha**

JavaScript frameworks like React will render our applications into a container element. In order for percentage-based heights to work, we need to add  `height: 100%`  to this wrapper!

If you use create-react-app, the wrapper has an ID of  `root`. In Next.js, it's  `__next`.

Here's an example of how you can solve this problem for these two frameworks:
```css
html,
body,
#root,  /* for create-react-app */
#__next /* for Next.js */  {
  height:  100%;
}
```
- Note that this isn't specific to React. We need to include selectors for _every_ element that sits between the root `html` tag, and the element we want to stretch to 100% of the screen size.

**By default, width looks  _up_  the tree, while height looks  _down_  the tree.** An element's width is calculated based on its _parent's size_, but an element's _height_ is calculated based on its _children_.

- When it comes to height, a parent element will “shrinkwrap” itself around its children, like a pouch of vacuum-sealed food.

- We can override this default behaviour by specifying an explicit value. For example,  `width: 300px`  and  `height: 500px`  don't look up  _or_  down the tree; they don't have to calculate anything, since we're giving it a specific value! So, I'm specifically talking about when we  _don't_  set  `width`/`height`.


**What about the vh unit?**
- Unfortunately, this unit doesn't  _quite_  work the way we'd often like, because of mobile devices.