# Build in Declarartion & Inheritance

- Fundamentally, the goal of CSS is to allow you to control the appearance and layout of your app's content.

- You don't quite start with a blank canvas; HTML tags do include a few minimal styles. For example, here are the built-in styles for  `<a>`  tags, in Chrome 86:
```css
a {
  color: -webkit-link;
  cursor: pointer;
  text-decoration: underline;
}
```
- These styles are part of the _**user-agent stylesheet**_. Each browser includes their own stylesheet full of base styles like this. There are some hard rules in the HTML specification, but for the most part, each browser comes up with its own default styles. That's why focus rings look so different across browsers!

- In the past, it was common to use a CSS reset? to strip away many of these default user-agent styles. These days, though, browsers are a bit more consistent in how they render elements, and there's a growing awareness that we shouldn't expect our sites/applications to be _identical_ across browsers and devices.

## Inheritance

- _Certain_ CSS properties _inherit_. When I apply a `color` to an element, that value gets passed down to all children and grand-children.

- Not all CSS properties are inheritable, though

- Most of the properties that inherit are typography-related, like `color`, `font-size`, `text-shadow`, and so on. You can find a more-or-less complete [list of inheritable properties](https://www.sitepoint.com/css-inheritance-introduction/#list-css-properties-inherit) on SitePoint.

### Forcing inheritance

- Occasionally, you may wish to have a property inherit even when it wouldn't normally do so.

- A good example is link colors. By default, anchor tags have built-in styles that give unvisited, inactive links a blue hue.
- 
- The trouble is that even though  `color`  is an inheritable property,  **it's being overwritten by the default style**,  `color: -webkit-link`?.

- We can fix this by explicitly telling anchor tags to inherit their containing text color:
	```css
	 a {
    color: inherit;
  }
  ```