# Block and Inline Directions

- English is a left-to-right language, meaning that the words are placed side-by-side, from left to right. Individual words are combined into  _blocks_, like headings and paragraphs.

- Pages are constructed out of blocks, placed one on top of the other. When a new paragraph is added to the page, it's inserted below the previous block element.

- In other words, English documents have two "directions": the page consists of vertically-oriented blocks, made up of horizontally-oriented words

CSS builds its sense of direction based on this system. It has a block direction (vertical), and an inline direction (horizontal).

Here's an easy way to remember the directions, for horizontal languages:

-   Block direction is like lego blocks: they stack together one on top of the other.
    
-   Inline direction is like people standing  **in-line**; they stand side by side, not one on top of the other.

## Logical properties

Here are the built-in styles for  `p`  tags, in Chrome:
```css
p {
  display: block;
  margin-block-start:  1em;
  margin-block-end:  1em;
  margin-inline-start:  0px;
  margin-inline-end:  0px;
}
```

- These properties are equivalent to the 4 cardinal directions:  `margin-top`,  `margin-bottom`,  `margin-left`, and  `margin-right`.

- `margin-block`  refers to the vertical axis.  `margin-block-start`  refers to the top, since block elements are stacked top-to-bottom. Similarly,  `margin-inline-start`  refers to the left edge, since "inline" is the horizontal direction, and words are placed left-to-right.

- Why use these alternatives? Because not all languages are left-to-right, top-to-bottom. If you were to switch your browser's language to Arabic,  `margin-inline-start`  would add spacing to the right instead of to the left, since Arabic is a right-to-left language.

- These alternatives are known as  _logical properties_. It's not just margin: there are logical variants for padding, border, and overflow as well.

- There are still a few kinks around some of the shorthand variants (eg.  `margin-block`  instead of  `margin-block-start`), but the properties we've seen are  [supported in all major browsers](https://caniuse.com/css-logical-props).

- Note that we're speaking purely in terms of _directions_ at this point. It's no coincidence that the `display` property can be set to `block` and `inline`, but _we're not actually talking about those values yet_; for now, the important takeaway is that content is structured along a block axis and an inline axis, just like a real-world document.

### When should we use logical properties?

- Logical properties are intended to  _entirely replace_  their conventional alternatives. In the future, we might all write  `margin-inline-start`  instead of  `margin-left`!

- That said, it's hard to overcome inertia. I'll be honest, I still reach for  `margin-left`  out of habit. 😅

- The main selling point for logical properties is  _internationalization_. If you want your product to be available in a left-to-right language like English  _and_  a right-to-left language like Arabic, you can save yourself a lot of trouble by using logical properties.

- If you're starting a new project, I'd encourage you to give logical properties a shot!
